In the 2018 auction, one of the best bowlers in the world bought by Kolkata Knight Riders, Mitchell Starc for RS 9.4 Crores. Before fourth Test match against South Africa at Johannesburg played from 30th March to 3rd April, Starc was ruled out due to right leg injury.


Mitchell Starc had missed the 2016 and 2017 editions of IPL due to injuries after promising contributions during 2014 and 2015 editions. With Kolkata Knight Riders struggling for top quality bowlers, the Australian pacer would be missed immensely. His replacement in Tom Curran has played 1 match so far and has not performed according to expectations.


The highly-rated United States international will complete an historic switch to the Premier League champions in the summer of 2019
Columbus Crew have confirmed that United States international goalkeeper Zack Steffen has secured a $10 million (£8m) switch to Manchester City and will complete a move in July 2019.
Goal revealed last week that the 23-year-old had a deal in place to link up with the reigning Premier League champions.
The initial terms of the agreement include a $7.5m (£6m) fee that could rise to $10m if Steffen reaches certain incentives. 




The Former Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) wicketkeeper-batsman was snapped by Mumbai Indians in an all-money deal. It means that Rohit Sharma & Co did not exchange a player with RCB to bring add De Kock to their roster. Although, they released the duo of Mustafizur Rahman and Akila Dananjaya.




It was not until 1928 that the first five-figure transfer took place. David Jack of Bolton Wanderers was the subject of interest from Arsenal, and in order to negotiate the fee down, Arsenal manager Herbert Chapman got the Bolton representatives drunk. Subsequently, David Jack was transferred for a world record fee when Arsenal paid £10,890 to Bolton for his services, after Bolton had asked for £13,000, which was double the previous record made when Sunderland signed Burnley's Bob Kelly a fee of for £6,500.




The first player from outside Great Britain to break the record was Bernabé Ferreyra, a player known as La Fiera for his powerful shot. His 1932 transfer from Tigre to River Plate cost £23k,[129] and the record would last for 17 years (the longest the record has lasted) until it was broken by Manchester United's sale of Johnny Morris to Derby County for £24k in March 1949. The record was broken seven further times between 1949 and 1961, when Luis Suárez Miramontes was sold by FC Barcelona to Inter Milan for £152k, becoming the first ever player sold for more than £100k.




In 1968, Pietro Anastasi became the first £500k player when Juventus purchased him from Varese,[129] which was followed seven years later with Giuseppe Savoldi becoming the first million pound player when he transferred from Bologna to Napoli.




In the space of 61 days in 1992, three transfers broke the record, all by Italian clubs: Jean-Pierre Papin transferred from Marseille to A.C. Milan, becoming the first ever £10m player. Almost immediately, rivals Juventus topped that with the signing of Gianluca Vialli for a fee of £12m from Sampdoria. Milan then completed the signing of Gianluigi Lentini for a fee of £13m which stood as the record for three years.




The 1996 transfer of Alan Shearer from Blackburn Rovers to Newcastle United, for a fee of £15m, kick-started a year-by-year succession of record breaking transfers: Ronaldo moved the following year to Inter Milan from FC Barcelona for a fee of £17m, which was followed in 1998 by the shock transfer of his fellow countryman Denílson from São Paulo to Real Betis for a fee of approximately £21m.




Chennai: Suresh Raina will miss Chennai Super Kings' (CSK) next two games in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) after sustaining a calf muscle injury during the match against Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) at the MA Chidambaram stadium on Tuesday.


The news was announced on CSK's website.


The left-hander suffered the injury while taking a single off Sunil Narine's bowling and limped off. He struggled to run subsequently and holed out off Narine's bowling.


The number 1 ranked Test bowler in the world, Kagiso Rabada was retained using right to match card by Delhi Daredevils franchise at price money of Rs 4.2 Crores. The South African young bowler suffered an injury during the 4th Test match against Australia. He was the pick of bowlers for South Africa taking 23 wickets in 4 matches and was named as man of series.




Rabada was ruled out before the IPL 2018 due to a back injury and is expected to be out for 3 months, meaning he misses entire IPL 11 edition. South African fast bowler has been replaced by England pace bowler Liam Plunkett. 


Pat Cummins the promising young bowler from Australia was bought by Mumbai Indians in the auction at RS 5.4 Crores. He produced some fine bowling spells in the 4 match test series against South Africa. Last year, Cummins represented Delhi Daredevils who picked 15 wickets in 12 matches.


New Zealand young fast bowler Adam Milne replaces Pat Cummins. Milne has featured in 5 matches only for Royal Challengers Bangalore taking just 4 wickets.


Kedar Jadhav the hard-hitting batsman from Maharashtra was bought by Chennai Super Kings in the auction at RS 7.8 Crores. He played in the XI for Chennai Super Kings during the opening match of IPL 2018 against Mumbai Indians. Jadhav got injured and had to leave the field. He was one of the promising youngsters with the ability to support ball, bat and field.


In the 2017 edition of Indian Premier League, Jadhav played for Royal Challengers Bangalore scoring 267 runs in 13 matches with the top score of 69.


After the dismissal of Bravo in the 19th over, he came in the last over and for Chennai Super Kings, hit the winning runs. Kedar Jadhav was ruled out of IPL 2018 due to the hamstring injury. David Willey an all-rounder from England, has been named as his replacement for the rest of tournament who might meet the needs of the franchise. 


The promising young all-rounder from New Zealand Mitchell Santner was bought Chennai Super Kings in the auction for RS 50 Lakhs. He has shown lots of promise for New Zealand national squad with good all-round performances with bat and ball.


Mitchell Santer could not play the Test series against England played in March and will miss 9 months of cricket due to the knee injury. Before the IPL started. Santner was ruled out of IPL. With his contributions with the ball and bat, it is a big blow for Chennai Super Kings.
Afghanistan young spinner Zahir Khan Pakteen was bought by Rajasthan Royals at base price money RS 20 Lakhs. After Rajasthan Royal’s first match, the young left-arm chinaman bowler was ruled out of IPL due to an injury.


Zahir Khan Pakteen featured in 2016 Under 19 World Cup. He was keen to work with Rajasthan Royals coach and widely known spinner Shane Warne. Royals have named Ish Sodhi of New Zealand as his replacement. Being of Indian origin and knowing the conditions better, he may also fulfill the expectations of the franchise. 


Ish Sodhi has the experience of playing in Indian conditions for New Zealand, so he could provide the option of leg spin that can trouble any batsmen.


The Australian fast bowler Nathan Coulter Nile was bought by Royal Challengers Bangalore for Rs 1.50 Crores. Before the Indian Premier League 2018 started, Nathan Coulter Nile was ruled out due to a sustained stress back fracture.


In the 2017 edition, Nathan Coulter Nile played for Kolkata Knight Riders taking 15 wickets from 8 matches. Corey Anderson an all-rounder from New Zealand has replacement Nathan Coulter Nile. Anderson may do better contribution with the bat, ball, and field if given a chance. 


The sensational fast bowler of Under 19 World Cup Indian winning team in 2018, Kamlesh Nagarkoti was bought by Kolkata Knight Riders for Rs 3.20 Crores. He has the ability to show his class with the ball.
Kolkata Knight Riders have played 3 matches in the IPL 2018 edition. Before the 3rd match against Sunrisers Hyderabad on Saturday at Eden Garden’s, the Under 19 bowler Kamlesh Nagarkoti was ruled out of IPL due to the foot injury and will miss the entire season. It is a big lost opportunity for him to feature in the playing XI. 
Nagarkoti was impressive in Under 19 World Cup 2018, picking up 9 wickets from 6 matches and helped Men in Blue win 4th Under 19 title.
The Australian young bowler Jason Behrendroff was bought by Mumbai Indians in the auction for Rs 1.5 Crores. He has been a consistent performer for Perth Scorchers in Big Bash League tournament taking 45 wickets in 32 matches. He performed very well in the 2nd game at Guwahati taking 4 wickets and helped Australia win the match that was held in October 2017.


He did not even land in India as he was ruled out of the tournament due to an injury. His ability to deceive the batsmen with his swing would have been useful for Mumbai Indians. Mumbai Indians may not miss him because of presence Bumrah and Mustafizur Rahman of Bangladesh. New Zealand fast bowler, Mitchell McClenaghan was announced as his replacement, who has played for Mumbai Indians in the previous seasons 


Mitchell McClenaghan took 16 wickets from 14 matches in IPL 10 and was instrumental in helping Mumbai Indians winning their 3rd title.




In 1999 and 2000, Italian clubs returned to their record-breaking ways, with Christian Vieri transferring from Lazio to Inter Milan for £28m, while Hernán Crespo's transfer from Parma to Lazio ensured he became the first player to cost more than £30m. The transfer prompted the BBC to ask "has the world gone mad"? It took two weeks for the record to be broken when Luís Figo made a controversial £37m move from Barcelona to rivals Real Madrid. A year later, Real increased the record again with a signing of Zinedine Zidane for £48 million (150 billion lire).


Zidane's record stood for 8 years, the longest since the 1940s. Real Madrid continued with the Galácticos policy by buying Kaká from Milan for €67 million (£56 million), which was the world record in pound sterling. However, both world record in euro and in pound sterling were broke by Real themselves when signing Cristiano Ronaldo for £80m (€94m) from Manchester United in the same transfer window, 4 years later Real Madrid broke the record again after completed the signing of Gareth Bale from Tottenham Hotspur in 2013. Although Real initially insisted that the transfer cost €91.59 million, slightly less than the Ronaldo fee, the deal was widely reported to be around €100 million (around £85.1 million). Documents leaked in 2016 by Football Leaks revealed that installments brought the final Bale fee up to a total of €100,759,418. In 2016, Manchester United eventually took the record away from Real Madrid, signing French midfielder Paul Pogba for €105 million (£89 million),  four years after having released him to Juventus for training compensation.


A year after the Pogba transfer, however, there was a major jump in the record fee. Paris St. Germain matched the €222 million buyout fee of Barcelona's Neymar, converted to a reported £198 million or £200 million by different sources. This was the first time that the record fee was paid by a French club.




The Blues signed Shevchenko for £29.4m more than a decade ago but that fee would soar to a staggering £144.4m in the current market, according to a study published by TotallyMoney.




KXIP exchange Marcus Stoinis for Mandeep Singh – RCB had bought Stoinis in IPL auction 2018 but KXIP used their Right to Match card to get back their former player. Going into the next edition, RCB made sure that they get Stoinis as they exchanged Mandeep Singh for the Australian all-rounder.


Shikhar Dhawan to Delhi Daredevils – The homecoming for Dhawan was the biggest transfer of the season. Sunrisers Hyderabad officially confirmed that the left-handed batsman was unhappy with the amount that he was bought at the IPL auction. A report in The Mumbai Mirror had suggested that Dhawan was in talks with Mumbai Indians and Kings XI Punjab and finally, he signed a deal with Delhi Daredevils, who would have surely given him a big hike. Abhishek Sharma, Vijay Shankar and Shahbaz Nadeem were transferred to Sunrisers Hyderabad for Dhawan.


KKR release Mitchell Starc – The left-arm Australian pacer took the cricket fraternity by surprise as he revealed that he was informed about being released in a text message from the franchise. Well, he is himself to be blamed as Starc has a long list of missing IPL seasons due to one or another injury. He might go unsold in this year’s IPL auction.


CSK retain core, release three players – Mark Wood, Kanishk Seth and Kshitiz Sharma were the three players who were released by CSK. They retained David Willey and Mitchell Santner. Wood’s release did not come as a surprise as he had himself left the CSK camp mid-way IPL to play county cricket and make it to the Test team for Pakistan series.


Coaches - 


Apart from players, few changes have been made to the backroom staff of the franchises as well. Virender Sehwag has parted ways with Kings XI Punjab as the team did not need a mentor, Sehwag had revealed. Brad Hodge and Venkatesh Prasad are not a part of KXIP now. Mike Hesson has been appointed as KXIP’s head coach while Sridharan Sriram has also joined the team’s backroom staff.  Mohammad Kaif, who has earlier coached Gujarat Lions, has joined Delhi Daredevils' coaching staff. 


Australian update –


In the latest update, Cricket Australia has laid few guidelines for its players to participate in IPL. The Aussies will not be playing the full tournament and will only be available for the month of April, partially. A Pre-World Cup camp will also see them returning to their country soon.




As the clock passed the 3 p.m. trade deadline, N.B.A. fans were waiting impatiently for the blockbuster deals that had been discussed for weeks. One major deal went down: Nerlens Noel is heading to Dallas from Philadelphia.


Some lesser deals were also concluded, but the trades that would remake teams did not materialize.


The Knicks kept Carmelo Anthony, despite speculation otherwise, and a deal that would have sent Derrick Rose to the Timberwolves for Ricky Rubio fell through.


The player who was probably the most talked about over the last week, Paul George, looked like he would be staying with the Pacers even though he can opt out of his contract in 2018.


George, 26, has been with the Pacers for seven seasons, four of them as an All-Star, and two trips to the conference finals. He bounced back from a serious leg injury on national team duty to once again average 20 points a game the last two seasons. Losing him would have been be a blow to Pacers fans.


The 76ers are getting trade deadline day started by swapping one of their big men. But it’s not Jahlil Okafor who is leaving town, as many expected. Instead, it’s the defensive ace Nerlens Noel who will go to Dallas. In return, the Sixers will get center Andrew Bogut, 32; swingman Justin Anderson; and a protected first-round pick, according to multiple news media reports citing anonymous sources.


Bogut is in the last year of his contract, and doesn’t seem like a candidate for a long-term stay in Philly.


Continue reading the main story
After a brief experiment with winning some games, the Sixers seem to have returned to the days of dumping assets. They traded Ersan Ilyasova, their second leading scorer, to the Hawks on Wednesday. In return they got 32-year-old Tiago Splitter, who is injured and hasn’t played this season. Okafor could still go, too, maybe to the Bulls. Somewhere, Sam Hinkie is smiling.


Dallas has had a tough year, but with Dirk Nowitzki playing again and a 22-year-old center of promise like Noel joining the team, things could be looking up.


Knicks Stand Pat
After weeks of breathless speculation about his future, Carmelo Anthony is sticking with the Knicks.


Thursday afternoon’s N.B.A. trade deadline passed without movement involving Anthony, despite the team’s willingness to engage potential trade partners. Any potential deals for Anthony would have been complicated by the no-trade clause he has in his contract, meaning he would have needed to approve the deal.


Anthony, 32, is averaging 23.4 points and 6 rebounds a game this season while shooting 44.3 percent from the field. But he has had a turbulent relationship with Phil Jackson, the team president, who had indicated through social media posts that he was willing to move on from Anthony and rebuild around a young core headlined by Kristaps Porzingis, their 21-year-old power forward.


The Knicks, who have been struggling again this season, were 23-34 ahead of their game Thursday night against the Cleveland Cavaliers. Anthony was expected to be in uniform.


Make sense of the start of N.B.A. free agency by thinking about it this way: The last few weeks have been the longest Christmas Eve ever, with trade and signing rumors popping up like stolen peeks in the presents closet. Christmas arrived in the wee hours of Sunday morning, but it didn’t really begin until Santa Claus arrived — and this summer, like most summers, the bearded man everyone was waiting for is named LeBron James.


All eyes were on James, who joined the Los Angeles Lakers on a four-year deal worth $154 million, and now they will fixate on Kawhi Leonard, who is reportedly interested in the Lakers as well.


Leading up to James’s agreement with the Lakers, Paul George agreed to re-sign with the Oklahoma City Thunder on a — very surprising — four-year $137 million deal. Then there’s Kevin Durant, who plans to sign a two-year maximum deal with the Golden State Warriors. He’ll have a player option for the second year, according to New York Times columnist Marc Stein.


Free agency officially opened Sunday at 12:01 a.m. Eastern. Teams can begin negotiating with players and reach verbal agreements, but nothing can be signed until July 6.


##


Why SAP’s Purchase of Qualtrics May Be Mutually Beneficial
By Richard Beales
Nov. 12, 2018

Rather than proceed with an imminent initial public offering at a possible valuation of around $4.5 billion, the market-analytics company Qualtrics is selling itself to the German software giant SAP for $8 billion in cash. That casts aside the desire for control of Qualtrics’ founders, but it may still be a smart choice.

The agreed deal, SAP’s biggest since it bought the travel and expense management firm Concur in 2014 for $8.3 billion, backs its chief executive Bill McDermott’s expansion into customer relationship management, from its core business of helping firms run their finance, logistics and human resources.

Qualtrics had filed with U.S. regulators to sell 20.5 million shares in an initial public offering at an indicated price of $18 to $21 per share. At the top of that range, but excluding additional shares available to the underwriters, Qualtrics would have had a market capitalization of around $4.5 billion.

The deal with SAP is certainly a good one financially for Qualtrics in the short term. Ryan and Jared Smith, along with their father Scott, will collect more than $3 billion for their stake. That’s against a lower valuation in an unpredictable stock market. The similar, if less impressive, company SurveyMonkey, which only went public in September, is trading below its I.P.O. price.

Ryan Smith, the chief executive of Qualtrics, will remain in charge, and the company will keep its brand and two headquarters in the United States. Being part of a $130 billion behemoth may erode autonomy, but there were risks in the original plan too. Buyers of public Qualtrics shares could have eventually resented the tight control that the Smiths were going to retain through super-voting rights and other mechanisms.


Resy Acquires Reserve, in the Fierce Tussle Over Restaurant Reservations

Hassan for The New York Times
By Tejal Rao
Nov. 2, 2018

16
Resy, the restaurant-reservation service founded in 2014, said Friday that it had acquired its smaller competitor Reserve.

Though Resy is the nation’s largest privately held reservation service, it is still small in comparison with OpenTable, which was bought by the publicly traded Priceline Group (now called Booking Holdings) in 2014 for $2.6 billion and is used by nearly 50,000 restaurants around the world. But Resy’s expansion is the latest sign that OpenTable’s dominance in the field may be threatened as small, young companies fiercely pursue restaurants’ business with lower fees and newer technology.

Resy would not disclose the financial details of the deal, which was signed on Oct. 27. But it said that with the addition of Reserve, which works with about 1,000 restaurants, most of them in Chicago, Washington and Boston, it will now serve about 4,000 restaurants in the United States. And since April, when it connected several international reservation platforms to its technology, Resy is used by 10,000 restaurants worldwide.

In April, Resy also bought ClubKviar, a luxury reservation service in Madrid and Barcelona, Spain. A year ago, Resy acquired Servy, a market research service, which it will integrate into its own software, allowing restaurants to survey their customers and learn more about them.


IBM to Buy Red Hat, the Top Linux Distributor, for $34 Billion
IBM’s purchase of Red Hat, the largest distributor of the open-source operating system Linux, is the latest competitive step among large business software companies to gain an edge in the cloud computing market.

IBM’s purchase of Red Hat, the largest distributor of the open-source operating system Linux, is the latest competitive step among large business software companies to gain an edge in the cloud computing market.CreditCreditPau Barrena/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
By Steve Lohr
Oct. 28, 2018

IBM is making a big move to bring more software developers under its wing by acquiring Red Hat, the largest distributor of the popular open-source operating system Linux, for $34 billion.

The purchase, announced on Sunday afternoon, is the latest competitive step among large business-software companies seeking an edge in the fast-growing market for cloud computing.

In June, Microsoft acquired GitHub, a major code-sharing platform for software developers, for $7.5 billion.

With the deal for Red Hat, IBM is trying to position itself as a kind of corporate “Switzerland” in cloud computing — a trusted partner of businesses that are moving to the cloud, but are leery of becoming dependent on one major cloud supplier.

In the cloud model, software developers write applications that run on remote data centers. The advantage can be lower costs and faster development of new business software.

IBM is a champion of a hybrid approach to cloud computing. That means some crucial data and applications run on cloud technology inside a company’s data centers, while other computing tasks run on the clouds of tech companies.


PARIS — It’s official: America has its first global luxury group. Michael Kors’s purchase of the Italian brand Versace for $2.1 billion vaults the company — to be renamed Capri Holdings, after the Italian island — into the ranks of fashion conglomerates, a rarefied world defined by Kering and LVMH Möet Hennessy Louis Vuitton.

Everyone is chattering about what the deal might or might not do for growth, for taking advantage of the Asian market, for back-room synergies and so forth. In his announcement on Tuesday, John D. Idol, chief executive of Kors, called it a “milestone.”

He was right, and not just in terms of Kors but in terms of the fashion and luxury industry itself.

There are implications that go beyond the purely financial to the root of luxury identity and the international fashion world. And they have the potential to be as disruptive, and formative, as any revenue stream. They speak to national pride, and to luxury’s sense of its own history.

And that is why, even as analysts muse over the stock price implications, consumers have taken to Donatella Versace’s Instagram feed to voice their fears and horror about what it could mean, with comments such as: “donatella why would you sell versace? it’s an iconic ITALIAN brand. i’m a pround italian, why would you sell it to an american brand?”


SiriusXM to Buy Pandora for $3.5 Billion in Bid to Expand Reach
The satellite radio provider SiriusXM said on Monday that it would acquire the music streaming service Pandora Media for $3.5 billion, in a bid to corral listeners who don’t want to pay for premium channels.

Pandora rose to success with radio stations, tailored to users, that were sprinkled with ads. In recent years it has struggled to compete with rival services like Spotify and Apple Music, which dominated music streaming by offering paid on-demand content — something Pandora was slow to replicate.

SiriusXM, one of the first commercial enterprises to sell radio service through satellite systems, has been partly hampered by the high capital costs of its business. Acquiring Pandora would give SiriusXM access to the fast-growing online segment of listeners, those who prefer streaming music through mobile phones. Fewer people are listening to traditional programming, whether over terrestrial or satellite radio.

“It would allow Sirius to reach a much broader audience,” said Justin Patterson, a music industry analyst. He likened the situation to DirecTV, the satellite service owned by AT&T, which also sells a streaming version of its product known as DirecTV Now. The online package is cheaper than the satellite offering and has the potential to reach many more households through existing broadband connections.

Pandora has been a potential acquisition target for at least two years. In 2016, a continued slide in its share price prompted it to look for possible buyers, and SiriusXM has been in the running to buy Pandora since it injected $480 million of funding into the company last year.

The investment allowed Pandora to cover basic expenses, and also spurred a shake-up in the executive ranks that brought in Roger Lynch, Pandora’s fourth chief executive in four years.

On a call with analysts, Jim Meyer, SiriusXM’s chief executive, said the acquisition would enable Sirius to try to keep listeners who did not want to pay for music by diverting them toward Pandora’s free ad-based model.


LONDON — As consumers shy away more and more from sugary soft drinks, Coca-Cola is betting on a new way to cater to them: Serve them coffee.
The American beverage titan said on Friday that it planned to buy Costa, one of the world’s biggest coffee chains, for 3.9 billion pounds, or $5.1 billion, in cash.
The deal — Coke’s biggest-ever acquisition of a brand, surpassing its 2007 takeover of Vitaminwater — shows just how much the company is willing to spend to keep up with changing tastes. The takeover will give it the third-largest player in the coffee shop industry, well behind Starbucks and just behind McDonald’s.
But Coke’s latest bid will also plunge the company deep into a war over coffee consumption, in all its forms, that’s being waged by a pair of food giants.




A $7.1 Billion Car Parts Acquisition Is a Glimmer of Hope in a Gloomy Sector
A $7.1 billion acquisition of a Fiat Chrysler-owned car parts supplier could send auto industry valuations into a spin.


The investment group KKR will pay 16 times next year’s earnings for Magneti Marelli. The parts supplier will be merged with another KKR portfolio company, Calsonic Kansei, which also provides car parts.


The multiple that KKR will pay is double what publicly traded car-parts peers are worth, according to data from Refinitiv. And shares of leading auto manufacturers trade at an even bigger discount.


Shareholders have reasons to be downbeat about the auto sector. A slowdown in China and worries that new fuel-economy standards will hurt demand in Europe have led to a number of profit warnings in recent months from suppliers like Continental and Michelin, as well as carmakers including Daimler and BMW.


It could be that KKR overpaid. Its return on invested capital may be as low as 10.7 percent by 2023 assuming it cuts 300 million euros (or about $350 million) of costs, grows operating profit 3 percent a year and pays 28 percent in taxes. That’s a mediocre return for a private-equity deal, which puts the onus on KKR and Calsonic to slash more expenses, boost revenue or hunt for more deals.


The deal is certainly a coup for the Fiat Chrysler chief executive Mike Manley, who took over both the company and negotiations with KKR in July after his predecessor, Sergio Marchionne, fell ill and later died. Mr. Manley now gets to choose how to divvy up the proceeds between shareholders and investments in electric- and autonomous-vehicle technology, where Fiat Chrysler lags.


But the vote of confidence from KKR, a typically savvy investor, contrasts with how public investors feel about the sector. All the major carmakers trade at well below 10 times earnings. Daimler and General Motors now trade below six times 2019 estimates, while Fiat Chrysler, Renault and Volkswagen languish at around five times. That suggests shareholders believe the bottom line will shrink drastically in the future.


Worse still, it looks like investors are assuming that some carmakers will soon be worthless. Fiat Chrysler, for example, should generate 10.5 billion euros of free cash flow in the next three years, according to estimates made by Refinitiv. Even if it shrinks by 5 percent a year after that, the company would earn its current enterprise value in free cash flow by 2027 at an 8 percent discount rate — implying it has no value whatsoever after that point.


Editors’ Picks


A ‘Time Capsule’ for Scientists, Courtesy of Peter the Great


Opinion
In Praise of Mediocrity


Tonya Harding Would Like Her Apology Now
That already looked overly pessimistic. KKR is helping to make the point.




Honda Putting $2.75 Billion Into G.M.’s Self-Driving Venture
In the race to develop self-driving cars, General Motors has picked up another hefty ally.


Honda, the Japanese automaker, has agreed to buy a $750 million stake in G.M.’s autonomous vehicles unit, G.M. Cruise Holdings, the two companies said Wednesday. In addition, Honda will contribute $2 billion to the project over the next 12 years.


G.M. is aiming to develop a vehicle — based on its electric Chevrolet Bolt — with no steering wheel or pedals that can be used in driverless taxi and delivery services. The automaker hopes to develop the technology into a new and lucrative line of business, apart from making and selling cars and trucks for consumers.


“Having the resources and capability of Honda will move us faster,” G.M.’s president, Dan Ammann, said in a conference call Wednesday.


Honda’s investment will give it a 5.7 percent stake in the Cruise venture. “This is a vote of confidence in G.M. and Cruise and what they are doing,” said Mike Ramsey, a Gartner analyst.


The announcement was made before the market opened. G.M. shares rose more than 2 percent on the day.


G.M. declined to say when it expected to introduce a driverless car, but in a federal government filing in January it asked permission to do so in a commercial ride-hailing service next year.


Waymo, the spinoff of Google, is working in the same direction, as are Ford Motor and Uber, the ride-hailing service.


Honda had pursued other joint efforts — it said in 2016 that it was in talks with Waymo — before making a commitment to G.M. and Cruise. “Honda was going to struggle to develop their own product, so they wanted a partner and already had a relationship with G.M.,” Mr. Ramsey said.


Automakers are also working on self-driving technology that can be added to cars that consumers can buy to give drivers the option of relinquishing the task of steering and navigating to their destination. That type of autonomous technology is expected to take more time to reach the market, however.


Editors’ Picks


China’s Women-Only Subway Cars, Where Men Rush In


Opinion
In Praise of Mediocrity


Sigrid Johnson Was Black. A DNA Test Said She Wasn’t.
G.M. acquired Cruise, then called Cruise Automation, in 2016 for a reported $1 billion in cash, stock and incentive compensation. It has since added other properties to the effort. A year ago, it bought Strobe, a company that specializes in laser-imaging technology, and folded it into Cruise.


Rather than go at it alone, G.M. has brought on partners to help fund the project in hopes of speeding development. Earlier this year SoftBank, the Japanese tech and investment firm, invested $2.25 billion in Cruise. As part of that deal, G.M. said it would put an additional $1.1 billion of its own money into the unit, which is based in San Francisco. SoftBank’s investment was made through its Vision Fund, which focuses on the technology sector.


In addition to money, Honda will provide expertise in manufacturing and engineering compact vehicles, where space is at a premium.


“With the backing of General Motors, SoftBank and Honda, Cruise is deeply resourced to accomplish our mission to safely deploy autonomous technology across the globe,” said Kyle Vogt, chief executive of G.M. Cruise Holdings. “We want to be able to produce this car in high volume when we’re ready to put it into use.”


G.M. and Honda remain competitors in the business of building cars, sport utility vehicles and light trucks, but have grown closer in recent years. In 2017, they began working together on a plant in Michigan to produce technology for vehicles powered by hydrogen fuel cells. They also cooperate in battery technology.


G.M., Waymo and others are betting that driverless ride services will spread rapidly once they are able to produce vehicles that can operate with input only from sensors, software and computer chips.


Waymo has made plans to buy up to 20,000 compact electric vehicles from Jaguar Land Rover, starting in 2019. It has also agreed to buy up to 62,000 Pacifica minivans from Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, potentially giving it a fleet of more than 80,000 driverless vehicles within three or four years. Waymo is already operating a test fleet of driverless taxis in Arizona.


For now, G.M. and Waymo appear to be ahead of most competitors. Last month, Toyota agreed to invest $500 million in Uber, to help it produce self-driving vehicles. Uber’s effort was set back this year when a test vehicle struck and killed a pedestrian in Tempe, Ariz.


Ford is testing a small number of self-driving cars in delivery fleets, and hopes to have a self-driving car in production by 2021.


Comcast Outbids Fox for Control of British Broadcaster Sky
LONDON — Comcast emerged as the victor for the British broadcaster Sky on Saturday, beating 21st Century Fox in a monthslong battle whose outcome promises to reshape the media landscape.


With a final offer that values Sky at about 29.7 billion pounds, or roughly $39 billion, the American cable giant wrested away control of Sky from Rupert Murdoch and the Walt Disney Company, which is buying most of Mr. Murdoch’s company, Fox.


The final battle for control of Sky, a pay-television company whose reach extends across Europe, came down to an unusual one-day, three-round auction overseen by Britain’s Takeover Panel. At the end, Comcast bid £17.28 per Sky share, while Fox had bid £15.67 a share.


Comcast and its chief executive, Brian L. Roberts, have succeeded in an international foray into empire building, gaining a big European outpost. Sky also represents yet another source of content that could prove valuable as traditional media and telecommunications companies vie against Netflix. While Comcast already owns NBCUniversal, more original shows and sports programming rights could help retain existing subscribers and draw new ones.


“This is a great day for Comcast,” Mr. Roberts said in a statement. “This acquisition will allow us to quickly, efficiently and meaningfully increase our customer base and expand internationally.”


Martin Gilbert, the chairman of the Sky board committee that oversaw takeover bids for the company, said in a statement that Comcast’s offer was “an excellent outcome” for shareholders and recommended that they accept the bid.


While Comcast emerged as the definitive winner of the auction, one unresolved question is whether Fox and its soon-to-be owner, Disney, would sell the 39 percent stake it already owns in Sky to its rival. Analysts have speculated that Fox and Disney would be willing to trade that holding in return for Comcast’s roughly 30 percent stake in Hulu, the American streaming service. (Such a deal would give Disney near total control of that business.)


It is also unclear whether Mr. Roberts’s costly pursuit will sit well with his own shareholders. Comcast’s winning bid is nearly 61 percent above Fox’s initial bid of about $23 billion in late 2016.


Mr. Murdoch founded Sky in the 1990s and it has since become one of Europe’s top television and broadband companies. Both bidders had coveted Sky’s international reach — it has about 23 million customers in five European countries — and its mix of original content and valuable sports broadcasting rights like English Premier League soccer.


Editors’ Picks


China’s Women-Only Subway Cars, Where Men Rush In


A ‘Time Capsule’ for Scientists, Courtesy of Peter the Great


How a Liberal Couple Became Two of N.Y.’s Biggest Trump Supporters
That overseas footprint would give Comcast a way to diversify away from the American market, where cord-cutting has slowed the growth of its traditional broadband and pay-TV businesses.


Sky has also been developing a video-streaming platform known as Q, which Mr. Roberts has praised as impressive.


Rarely has a multibillion-dollar takeover battle played out in such dramatic fashion, with a government-supervised auction taking place over a weekend. But the battle for control of Sky has been full of drama for nearly two years.


Fox sought to buy the 61 percent of Sky that it did not already own in late 2016. It was the second time in a decade that the Murdoch family had tried to buy full control of Sky. The Murdochs’ first attempt was in 2011, but they were forced to withdraw amid a phone-hacking scandal in Britain involving a Murdoch-owned tabloid.


Fox’s 2016 offer for Sky was met with skepticism by British lawmakers and regulators, who feared giving the family too much control over Britain’s media market. Mr. Murdoch already controls news outlets like The Sun and The Times of London, and skeptics worried that full control of Sky’s in-house news arm would give him too much power.


Ultimately, Fox was allowed to bid for Sky by the British government.


Then last year, Fox agreed to sell the bulk of itself — including its 39 percent stake in Sky — to Walt Disney in a $52.4 billion deal.


Sky ultimately became a key target in a complex bidding war for Fox between Comcast and Disney. Comcast made a higher takeover offer for Sky this spring, in part to spoil Disney’s bid to acquire most of Fox. Fox — and behind the scenes, Disney — raised its offer for Sky.


Disney ultimately prevailed in the fight for Fox, but did not gain control of Sky, which Robert A. Iger, the head of Disney, had called “a real crown jewel.”


Comcast, however, did not walk away from Sky. Instead, it and Fox continued to vie for dominance, leading the Takeover Panel to announce the unusual auction that took place on Saturday.


Disney Wins Chinese Approval for Fox Deal, Clearing Major Hurdle


LOS ANGELES — The Walt Disney Company said on Monday that Chinese regulators had unconditionally approved its purchase of 21st Century Fox assets, pushing the $71.3 billion deal closer to completion.


Disney is still awaiting regulatory approval from a handful of countries, which a spokeswoman declined to identify. But none are as important as China — a crucial growth market for Disney, given its swelling middle class. Furthermore, analysts had worried that the Disney deal could become collateral damage in the trade war, as China was looking for ways to retaliate against the United States.


China’s approval of the deal is particularly notable because it came without conditions. European regulators cleared Disney’s acquisition of most of 21st Century Fox this month, but that agreement required Disney to sell its European stake in A&E Networks, which includes the History and Lifetime cable channels.


United States antitrust officials gave their approval with remarkable speed in June, with the stipulation that Disney divest Fox’s 22 regional sports networks, including the Yankees’ YES channel. Disney began taking bids this month. Analysts have valued the chain at roughly $20 billion.


Disney’s takeover of most of 21st Century Fox was initially expected to be completed by June of next year. On an earnings-related conference call with analysts on Nov. 8, however, Robert A. Iger, Disney’s chief executive, said he expected the deal to close “meaningfully earlier.”


Disney is buying the Fox television studio, which has more than 30 series in production, and the 20th Century Fox movie studio, which controls the “X-Men” and “Avatar” franchises. Also coming to Disney will be the cable networks FX and National Geographic; a controlling stake in Hulu, which has more than 20 million subscribers; and Star, a fast-growing media company in India.


Disney, which owns ABC and ESPN, hopes 21st Century Fox will supercharge its plans for two Netflix-style streaming services. Disney’s first major streaming effort, ESPN Plus, arrived in the spring. A second offering, Disney Plus, built around the company’s Disney, Marvel, Lucasfilm and Pixar brands, will roll out late next year. Rounding out its streaming portfolio will be Hulu, an established service with ABC shows and critical hits like “The Handmaid’s Tale.”


Not included in the acquisition: Fox News, the Fox broadcast network and the FS1 sports cable channel.


Uber’s Recipe for Profitability Could Start With Buying Deliveroo
Deliveroo users know the anguish of waiting an hour for a red-faced cyclist to deliver a lukewarm hamburger. Investors in the European food-delivery app, and its rival Uber Eats, are similarly at risk of going hungry while the pair fight for market share.


Uber is in early talks to buy the London-based food delivery start-up Deliveroo for more than its latest valuation of $2 billion, Bloomberg reported on Thursday. A deal would be a significant statement of intent by the American ride-hailing giant’s chief executive Dara Khosrowshahi, who took over from founder Travis Kalanick last year: he wants Uber Eats to become the world’s largest meal-delivery business.


Deliveroo would be a big mouthful. Uber has made just six acquisitions to date, according to the business information provider Crunchbase — mostly of smallish technology companies. Integrating a well-known brand, which has 2,300 employees and a popular app, would be a new challenge for Uber, which historically focused on building its ride-hailing business in the face of opposition from licensed taxi drivers and local politicians.


Still, Uber’s recipe for making money from delivering food in Europe probably starts with taking out a rival.


Worldwide, Uber Eats is a bright spot for its loss-making parent. It is profitable in 27 of 108 cities, The New York Times reported last year, and is sometimes more popular than Uber’s ride-hailing business in Tokyo and Seoul.


But in Britain and other European markets, Uber Eats is streets behind Deliveroo and other local services like Just Eat and Delivery Hero. Its share of British order volume last year was between 5 percent and 10 percent, according to projections from British antitrust regulators. Deliveroo’s was double that.


While the financial performance of Uber Eats is secret, it’s safe to assume that bringing stay-at-home diners to its app is expensive. Deliveroo made a 129 million pound loss in 2016, the last year for which figures are available — more than it earned in revenue. The company’s gross margin, or sales minus immediate costs like paying riders, was 0.8 percent.


Together, Uber and Deliveroo could make a better pitch to restaurants and diners. They could also ease off on costly promotions. Paying in stock would limit the drain on Uber’s cash, and give Deliveroo investors exposure to future growth. Mr. Khosrowshahi should fill his belly.


Time Magazine Is Bought by Marc Benioff, Salesforce Billionaire


Time, the pre-eminent weekly newsmagazine of the 20th century, will have new owners: Marc Benioff, the billionaire co-founder of the software company Salesforce, and his wife, Lynne.


Time’s parent company, Meredith Corporation, announced on Sunday that it had agreed to sell the flagship publication of once-mighty Time Inc. to the Benioffs for $190 million in cash.


Mr. Benioff becomes the latest tech billionaire to take the reins of an iconic media brand. Jeff Bezos, the founder and chief executive of Amazon, bought The Washington Post in 2013. Last year, Laurene Powell Jobs, the widow of the Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, agreed to acquire a majority stake in The Atlantic magazine through her organization, Emerson Collective.


Now, with the deal for Time, the Benioffs have picked up one of the most storied — but struggling — publications in the country.


[While having a massage late Sunday, Mr. Benioff discussed via text message his interest in Time.]


Since March, Meredith executives, led by Time Inc. alumni, have pounded the pavement looking for the right owner. But in recent years, the economic headwinds facing the magazine industry have become a gale force.


Alan Murray, the chief content officer of the Time Inc. brands at Meredith, said that, after dozens of meetings with suitors — “I don’t have enough fingers and toes to count them,” he said — the Benioffs emerged as the best fit, willing to put journalistic integrity ahead of corporate gains.


“They’re not looking for private-equity returns,” Mr. Murray said, adding that the couple would help the title “further make the transition into the digital world, but don’t want to get involved” in editorial decisions.


Meredith had fended off offers from multiple suitors, including a more than $325 million offer from David J. Pecker, a confidant of President Trump and chief executive of American Media Inc., publisher of The National Enquirer, to purchase three Time Inc. titles.


In a statement, the Des Moines-based Meredith echoed that Time would maintain editorial independence, and made it clear that the deal had nothing to do with Salesforce.


Editors’ Picks


A ‘Time Capsule’ for Scientists, Courtesy of Peter the Great


China’s Women-Only Subway Cars, Where Men Rush In


Sigrid Johnson Was Black. A DNA Test Said She Wasn’t.
“The Benioffs are purchasing Time personally and the transaction is unrelated to Salesforce.com, where Mr. Benioff is chairman, co-C.E.O. and founder,” Meredith said in its release.


Mr. Benioff, 53, whose net worth has been estimated at more than $6 billion by Forbes, confirmed the agreement in a Twitter post on Sunday, saying he and his wife were “honored to be stewards of this iconic brand.”


“The power of Time has always been in its unique storytelling of the people & issues that affect us all & connect us all,” Mr. Benioff wrote. “A treasure trove of our history & culture.”




Coca-Cola Bets on Coffee With $5.1 Billion Deal for Costa
LONDON — As consumers shy away more and more from sugary soft drinks, Coca-Cola is betting on a new way to cater to them: Serve them coffee.


The American beverage titan said on Friday that it planned to buy Costa, one of the world’s biggest coffee chains, for 3.9 billion pounds, or $5.1 billion, in cash.


The deal — Coke’s biggest-ever acquisition of a brand, surpassing its 2007 takeover of Vitaminwater — shows just how much the company is willing to spend to keep up with changing tastes. The takeover will give it the third-largest player in the coffee shop industry, well behind Starbucks and just behind McDonald’s.


But Coke’s latest bid will also plunge the company deep into a war over coffee consumption, in all its forms, that’s being waged by a pair of food giants.


Nestlé owns both Nescafé instant coffee and the high-end Blue Bottle chain, and which recently closed a $7.15 billion deal for the exclusive marketing rights to Starbucks packaged coffee and tea. JAB, the acquisitive European conglomerate that has remade the coffee industry through a spending spree, picking up smaller chains including Peet’s Coffee and Stumptown as well Keurig Green Mountain, the maker of single-serve coffee machines.


In all of their sights is the fast-rising consumption of coffee around the world, as well as the myriad ways that java can be served, from complex creations in coffee shops to pods that can be dropped into machines at home. Global coffee sales, including of the instant variety, are forecast to grow 15.6 percent by 2022, according to the market researcher Euromonitor, outpacing the growth in sales of soft drinks.


Though Coke will gain its first significant retail footprint through the deal, the company appears more interested in using its vast distribution network to help it sell Costa products in grocery stores and to restaurants.


“The Costa brand has potential for expansion into ready-to-drink coffee across many markets globally,” James Quincey, Coke’s chief executive, wrote in a blog post about the deal on Friday. The company also supplies coffee to restaurants, and owns a coffee vending business with 8,000 machines on the market, Mr. Quincey noted.


Coke’s sales have been falling for five years, as consumers spurn the sugary drinks that long underpinned its business empire. That shift away from soda has forced the entire industry to find new businesses. PepsiCo, for instance, has refocused on healthier snack offerings, and this past month agreed to buy SodaStream, which sells a device to make flavored sparkling water at home, for $3.2 billion.


Editors’ Picks


Sigrid Johnson Was Black. A DNA Test Said She Wasn’t.


Tonya Harding Would Like Her Apology Now


China’s Women-Only Subway Cars, Where Men Rush In
With JAB having snapped up so many coffee shops, Coke chose an obvious target: Britain’s biggest coffee chain, which itself helped persuade a nation of tea drinkers to gulp a different kind of brew.


Founded as a roastery in London 47 years ago by two Italian brothers, the company was sold to the British hospitality company Whitbread in 1995. At that time, it had just 39 stores. Now the chain has more than 2,400 outlets in Britain and 1,400 in other markets around Europe and Asia, as well as 8,000 Costa Express self-serve machines.


But while Costa is huge in its home country, it has catching up to do elsewhere — and, according to the research analyst Jonathan Davison of GlobalData, Coke can help.


“The chain might be the biggest in the U.K., but it lags well behind Starbucks globally,” he said of Costa. “Coca-Cola’s distribution muscle will no doubt help close the gap and boost sales significantly in the long run.”


International expansion is crucial to the future of Costa, whose sales in Britain have stagnated in recent years as artisanal experiences and products offered by upstarts have snatched a small but growing slice of the market.


Whitbread had responded over the last three years by building more international stores, trying to make the Costa brand more of a rival to Starbucks, particularly in China. Those expansion efforts were what drew the attention of the British-born Mr. Quincey.


“Costa is a good fit — and the best way — for Coca-Cola to add a global coffee platform that will complement our existing system,” he wrote.


Subscribe to With Interest
Catch up and prep for the week ahead with this newsletter of the most important business insights, delivered Sundays.


SIGN UP
Coke had flirted with buying a coffee company before, in a way. It invested $1.25 billion in the maker of Keurig home coffee makers, to help pave the way for a Keurig Kold line of at-home soda machines. But that partnership faltered two years later, after the Kold proved a bust. (Keurig is now owned by JAB, which combined the business with Dr Pepper Snapple this year.)


Coke’s offer followed Whitbread’s decision, amid pressure from activist shareholders, to spin off the Costa business.


Soon after that announcement in April, Coke offered a knockout price. The transaction values Costa at more than 16 times the pro forma earnings for its 2018 fiscal year. Given that offer and what Coke could do to accelerate Costa’s growth plans, starting talks made a huge amount of sense, according to Whitbread’s chief executive, Alison Brittain. (The bulk of the negotiations took place over just five weeks, she said in a telephone interview.)


“Costa gets all the scale and distribution and reach of Coca-Cola that the original business couldn’t do on its own,” Ms. Brittain said.


Investors in Whitbread appeared pleased with what Ms. Brittain told analysts was an “absolute stonking” deal: Shares in the British company were up as much as 19 percent on Friday.


“This transaction was a marriage made in heaven,” Ms. Brittain said in the interview.


##




Now celebrating its 32nd year, the Edison Awards, recognized as the world’s foremost innovation award, announced in may 2019 Edison Achievement Award honoree is Ginni Rometty, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of IBM for innovation.
The Edison Achievement Award honors distinguished leaders who have made a significant and lasting contribution to innovation throughout their careers and whose accomplishments serve as an inspiration to every industry and the world at large.
Since becoming CEO in January 2012, Rometty has led IBM through the most significant transformation in its history, and the company has become the world leader in AI and cloud computing for business, underpinned with trust and security. She has worked to ensure that new technologies are developed and deployed in a way that is ethical and enduring, with IBM becoming the first company to publish long-held principles of trust for AI, data responsibility and data transparency.
IBM also led the way on ensuring that society is prepared for this new era of data, equipping workers for “new collar” job roles in emerging technology fields that do not always require a bachelor’s degree. The IBM-created Pathways in Technology (P-TECH) education model is a six-year program that prepares students for career success by combining high school with a community college degree, mentoring and internships; there are more than 120 schools worldwide, bringing technology employment opportunities to more than 100,000 students.
“Ginni exemplifies Thomas Edison’s vision of bringing innovation to life and continues to deliver on her company’s mission of engineering a better tomorrow. On behalf of our Steering Committee, we are honored to present Ginni with our most prestigious award, the 2019 Edison Achievement Award,” said Frank Bonafilia, Executive Director of the Edison Awards. “In addition to being one of the most influential women in business, Ginni is creating an environment where innovative solutions are being developed in order to advance business and make the world a safer and more productive place.”The Edison Award program is presented by Edison Universe, a non-profit, 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to recognizing, honoring, and fostering innovation and innovators throughout the world. 


The 2018 Oscar winner for Best Actor is Gary Oldman for his performance in DARKEST HOUR. This is his second Academy Award nomination and first Oscar win. He was previously nominated for TINKER TAILOR SOLDIER SPY (2011, Actor in a Leading Role). Earlier in the night, Kazuhiro Tsuji, David Malinowski and Lucy Sibbick took home the 2018 Oscar for Best Makeup and Hairstyling. 
In the film, Gary Oldman portrays Winston Churchill, the new British prime minister torn between rallying his nation to fight a ferocious enemy and bowing to pressure to appease Hitler during the early days of World War II. With the fall of France imminent and the possibility of a German invasion of Britain looming, Churchill knows his decision will affect the entire free world.
Frances McDormand is a Best Actress 2018 Oscar winner for her performance as Mildred in the film THREE BILLBOARDS OUTSIDE EBBING, MISSOURI. This is the fifth Academy Award nomination for Frances McDormand. She was previously nominated for Actress in a Supporting Role for NORTH COUNTRY (2005), ALMOST FAMOUS (2000), MISSISSIPPI BURNING (1988).  In 1996, McDormand was an Oscar winner for Best Actress in a Leading Role for FARGO.
McDormand delivered a powerful speech, asking every female nominee to stand with her in solidarity. "If I may be so honored to have all the female nominees in every category stand with me in this room tonight," she stated.

NEW YORK, NY – (November 14, 2018) – Now celebrating its 32nd year, the Edison Awards, recognized as the world’s foremost innovation award, announced the 2019 Edison Achievement Award honoree is Ginni Rometty, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of IBM.

The Edison Achievement Award honors distinguished leaders who have made a significant and lasting contribution to innovation throughout their careers and whose accomplishments serve as an inspiration to every industry and the world at large.

Since becoming CEO in January 2012, Rometty has led IBM through the most significant transformation in its history, and the company has become the world leader in AI and cloud computing for business, underpinned with trust and security. She has worked to ensure that new technologies are developed and deployed in a way that is ethical and enduring, with IBM becoming the first company to publish long-held principles of trust for AI, data responsibility and data transparency.

IBM also led the way on ensuring that society is prepared for this new era of data, equipping workers for “new collar” job roles in emerging technology fields that do not always require a bachelor’s degree. The IBM-created Pathways in Technology (P-TECH) education model is a six-year program that prepares students for career success by combining high school with a community college degree, mentoring and internships; there are more than 120 schools worldwide, bringing technology employment opportunities to more than 100,000 students.

“Ginni exemplifies Thomas Edison’s vision of bringing innovation to life and continues to deliver on her company’s mission of engineering a better tomorrow. On behalf of our Steering Committee, we are honored to present Ginni with our most prestigious award, the 2019 Edison Achievement Award,” said Frank Bonafilia, Executive Director of the Edison Awards. “In addition to being one of the most influential women in business, Ginni is creating an environment where innovative solutions are being developed in order to advance business and make the world a safer and more productive place.”


The winners of this year’s Lasker Awards are C. David Allis of Rockefeller University and Michael Grunstein of the University of California, Los Angeles, for discoveries about the proteins that package DNA; John “Iain” Glen, formerly a pharmaceutical researcher at AstraZeneca, for developing the drug propofol; and Yale University’s Joan Steitz for leadership and research throughout her career, the Lasker Foundation announced today (September 11). The Laskers, prestigious awards often used to forecast future Nobel Prize winners, each come with a cash prize of $250,000.

At one time, Grunstein recalled in a teleconference with the media today, most researchers assumed that because the histone proteins that package DNA are highly conserved among vastly different species, they must not be very interesting. But in the 1980s, “we found that they’re very important, not only as packing material, but as proteins that regulate gene activity,” he says. 

Allis and colleagues would later uncover more details about how this regulation works, including an enzyme that removes acetyl tags on histones, changing genes’ expression levels. The work helped lay the foundation for developing drugs for cancer and other conditions that involve aberrant histone tags.


The Sheth Foundation established the Sheth Foundation/Journal of Marketing Award in 2001, under the umbrella of the American Marketing Association Foundation (AMAF). The award honors the best article published in the Journal of Marketing that has made long-term contributions to the field of marketing. 

An article will be eligible for consideration to receive the Sheth Foundation/Journal of Marketing award in the sixth through tenth years after its publication in the Journal of Marketing. The criteria for selection include the quality of the article's contribution to theory and practice, its originality, its technical competence, and its impact on the field of marketing.  
The award is presented annually at the Summer AMA Conference.

This year, the committee considered all articles published in JM between 2008 and 2012. The committee selected the following paper as the 2018 winner: 
Hinz, Oliver, Bernd Skiera, Christian Barrot, and Jan U. Becker (2011), “Seeding Strategies for Viral Marketing: An Empirical Comparison,” Journal of Marketing, 75 (6), 55-71. 
The three finalists were:
Manjit S.Yadav, "The Decline of Conceptual Articles and Implications for Knowledge Development" (2010)
Rik Pieters, Michel Wedel, and Rajeev Batra, "The Stopping Power of Advertising: Measures and Effects ofVisual Complexity" (2010)
Girish Ramani and V. Kumar, "Interaction Orientation and Firm Performance"  (2008) 


Sigrid Nunez won the National Book Award for fiction on Wednesday night for her novel “The Friend,” which centers on a lonely writer who takes comfort after her friend commits suicide in caring for his Great Dane.

A sometimes acerbic meditation on loss and love, the novel was among this year’s critical favorites. The Times critic Dwight Garner called it “dry, allusive and charming,” noting that when the fragile writer adopts the large, lumbering dog, “the comedy here writes itself.”

“The Friend” perhaps also resonated with critics and judges this year because of its exploration of sexual harassment: The main character’s friend was a prominent writer who leveraged his fame to have inappropriate relationships with his younger students.

In their citation, the judges called “The Friend” an “exquisitely written and deeply humane exploration of grief, literature and memory.”

Ms. Nunez — the author of the novels “Salvation City,” “The Last of Her Kind,” “A Feather on the Breath of God” and “For Rouenna,” among other books — spoke in her acceptance speech about how writers are able to find meaning in pain and emotional hardship because suffering and loss can generate great literature.


Jesmyn Ward won the National Book Award for fiction on Wednesday night for “Sing, Unburied, Sing,” a dark, fablelike family epic set in contemporary Mississippi that grapples with race, poverty and the psychic scars of past violence.

The novel, which critics compared to works by William Faulkner and Toni Morrison, features a 13-year-old boy named Jojo, whose drug-addicted mother takes him and his toddler sister on a road trip to pick up their white father when he is released from prison. The judges called the book “a narrative so beautifully taut and heartbreakingly eloquent that it stops the breath.”

Ms. Ward, a Mississippi native who received a grant from the MacArthur Foundation this year, is now a two-time National Book Award winner: She previously won the fiction award in 2011 for her novel “Salvage the Bones.”

In her acceptance speech, she noted that occasionally in her career, she has faced skepticism from people who doubted that there was a commercial audience for fiction about poor black Southerners.


Henry Winkler deserved the biggest thumbs up of all on Monday night. More than 40 years after his first Emmy nomination, he finally took home a statuette.

“Oh, my god. Oh, my god. Oh, my god!” said an ecstatic Mr. Winkler, 72, who’d leapt onto the stage to accept his award for outstanding supporting actor in a comedy series, bringing the audience to its feet. He played Gene Cousineau on HBO’s dark comedy “Barry.”

“I wrote this 43 years ago,” he said. “Skip Brittenham said to me a long time ago: ‘If you stay at the table long enough, the chips come to you.’ And tonight, I got to clear the table.” Mr. Brittenham is an eminent entertainment lawyer.


The dragons held off Netflix.

“Game of Thrones” stormed the 70th Primetime Emmy Awards on Monday night, taking home the best drama Emmy for the third time in the past four years and defeating last year’s winner, “The Handmaid’s Tale.”

Although HBO’s sprawling fantasy closed out its seventh and most recent season 13 months ago, Emmy voters still showered it with awards.

Continue reading the main story
HBO and Netflix tied for the total number of Emmys won, with 23 awards each, including the statuettes given out at the Creative Emmy Awards earlier this month.

“Game of Thrones” had the biggest haul, with nine total awards, just ahead of Amazon’s “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel” and NBC’s enduring sketch series “Saturday Night Live,” which won eight apiece.

For Netflix, the 2018 Emmys represented a triumph. But the result came as a relief to HBO, which can now say that it has technically finished in first place among all broadcast and cable networks for 17 years running.

The rest of HBO’s awards were spread among several shows in acting categories, including wins for Henry Winkler (“Barry”), Bill Hader (“Barry”), Thandie Newton (“Westworld”) and Peter Dinklage (“Game of Thrones”).

In his acceptance speech, Mr. Dinklage called out the show’s creators, David Benioff and Dan Weiss, saying: “Thank you Dave and Dan for changing my life. I cannot walk down the street anymore.”

“The Americans,” the FX spy drama that concluded earlier this year, won two awards, including best actor in a drama for Matthew Rhys. The FX drama had won only two Emmys across its previous five seasons, but voters decided to give it some love on its way out, as they had with “The Sopranos” and “Breaking Bad.”

Claire Foy, who played Queen Elizabeth on “The Crown,” won for best lead actress in a drama, her last chance to win for that role before ceding it to Olivia Colman as the show moves deeper into the 1960s. Earlier this month, “The Crown” won best cast in a drama at the Creative Arts Emmys.

Netflix spent handsomely on Emmy campaigning this year, opening a space in Hollywood to showcase its fare and advertising on billboards along the Sunset Strip. But it wasn’t the only company to hype its wares. So-called For Your Consideration events — panel discussions where voters have access to stars, canapés and booze — filled the schedules of the more than 23,000 members of the Television Academy in the run-up to the ceremony.

Last year, there were 61 academy-sanctioned events in Los Angeles and New York during Emmy campaigning season. This year, that number ballooned to 116, according to a spokesman for the academy.


It's been a busy morning for North East singer-songwriter Sam Fender.


The 22-year-old has just been named the Critics' Choice prize winner ahead of next year's Brit Awards.


However, he still found the time to speak to BBC Newcastle's Alfie Joey.


He said: "I've not slept all night. It's a massive, massive honour.


"I'm an alternative rock musician. Most of the list has always been pop artists.


"To be picked as an alternative rock musician from North Shields...


"I said to my manager at the pub the other day 'I will always be the worst barman in Shields' and that is just me.


"To win the Critics' Choice Award is stupid. It's stupid!"


Previous winners include Adele, Sam Smith and Ellie Goulding.




The European headquarters of Bloomberg has won the Riba Stirling prize for architecture.


The Royal Institute of British Architects gives out the award each year to the UK's best new building.


The building, which is in Bank, is the world's most sustainable office and largest stone building in the City of London.


It beat the likes of Bushey Cemetery and the New Tate St Ives to the prize.


The Bloomberg HQ was the 23rd recipient of the prize and the design by Foster + Partners was described as having a "restrained exterior and dynamic interior to encourage collaboration".


"Bloomberg is comprised of two buildings connected by a bridge. Each sit either side of a new public arcade, which re-establishes an ancient Roman road.


"This complex scheme also incorporates new access to Bank Underground station, cafes and restaurants, and a museum displaying the Roman Temple of Mithras, which was discovered on the site 60 years ago."


Building architects have managed to create an exterior that sits well with its surroundings, whilst also creating three new public spaces, which contributed to it winning the prize.


RIBA President Ben Derbyshire, said: "After vigorous debate, the jury reached a unanimous decision - Bloomberg's new European HQ is a monumental achievement.


"The creativity and tenacity of Foster + Partners and the patronage of Bloomberg have not just raised the bar for office design and city planning, but smashed the ceiling.


"This building is a profound expression of confidence in British architecture - and perfectly illustrates why the UK is the profession's global capital."




A drama lecturer covering maternity leave has won a top teaching award.


In eight months, Jonathan Wharton has "completely transformed the dynamics" within Sunderland College's drama department, judges have said.


He has been named Further Education Lecturer of the Year at the 20th Pearson Teaching Awards.


Twelve other "inspirational" teachers and schools from across England and Northern Ireland were also given gold awards.


Mr Wharton was praised by judges for being "highly creative in findings ways to inspire and engage" students.


He was also commended for free drama sessions he provides at Thornhill Academy in Sunderland.


Marie Watson won the award for Excellence in Special Needs Education
Andy Silvester was credited for "making school fun" as he won the Primary School Teacher of the Year Award for his work at Crowmarsh Gifford Primary School in Wallingford, Oxfordshire.




BBC News, the podcast “S-Town” and Al Jazeera were among the Peabody Award winners in the news, radio/podcast and public service categories, which were announced on Tuesday. The CBS television program “60 Minutes” was also honored, with the Institutional Award for its 50 years of news coverage.


Six news awards were bestowed, with BBC News winning for its reporting on Rohingya refugees in Myanmar and Bangladesh. Among the winners was a Vice News episode on HBO, “Charlottesville: Race and Terror.” Al Jazeera won the sole public service award, for a documentary by Fatma Naib about female genital mutilation in Africa.


“S-Town,” created by the makers of “Serial” and “This American Life,” was one of five radio or podcast winners. “S-Town” tells the story of John B. McLemore and the reporter Brian Reed, who went to visit him in his small town in Bibb County, Alabama. The first season of “Serial” won a 2014 Peabody for its investigation of the case of a high school student convicted of murder.


Last week the Peabody Award winners were named for the documentary, entertainment and children’s and youth categories. Notable winners included the Oscar-nominated documentary “Last Men in Aleppo,” about volunteer emergency service providers in the city; the Hulu television show “The Handmaid’s Tale,” a dystopian tale of female oppression; and Netflix’s “A Series of Unfortunate Events,” a program based on the books by Lemony Snicket, a.k.a. Daniel Handler.


The Peabody Awards gala, hosted by Hasan Minhaj, will be held on May 19 at Cipriani Wall Street in New York. The awards are based at the Grady College of Journalism and Mass Communication at the University of Georgia.


Marie Watson started at the Royal School for the Deaf in Derby as a pupil and now the English and British Sign Language teacher has won the award for Excellence in Special Needs Education.


Judges said she is an "excellent role model" and shows children how to "break the barriers of their disability".


The Lifetime Achievement award was presented to Janis Burden, who has been associate head teacher at Moss Side Primary School for 36 years.








Glasgow-based artist Charlotte Prodger has won the prestigious Turner Prize for a pair of autobiographical films -- one of which was shot entirely on an iPhone.
The 44-year-old, whose work explores landscape, language and queer identity, was named winner of the £25,000 ($32,000) award at a ceremony in London Tuesday evening.
One of Prodger's two winning films, the highly personal "Bridgit," addresses the artist's experience of coming out as gay in rural Scotland. The 33-minute-long artwork was created over the course of a year, and was filmed only using her iPhone.


It features shots of the countryside accompanied by music and passages from the artist's diary recited by friends. The jury reportedly commended Prodger for the "painterly quality" of her work, which "explores lived experience as mediated through technologies and histories."
The second film, "Stoneymollan Trail," brings together material shot by the artist between 1999 and 2015, and was named after a walking route in western Scotland.
In a video released by the Turner Prize's organizers ahead of Tuesday's announcement, Prodger praised the ability of smartphone cameras to produce footage that is "almost sculptural."
"The systems of the body are enmeshed with the camera," she said. "It's a kind of symbiosis but also a kind of grappling."
Prodger was born in Bournemouth, England, though she later relocated to Scotland where she now lives and works. She is set to represent Scotland at the 2019 Venice Biennale.
Having previously studied at the Glasgow School of Art, she used her acceptance speech to praise the role of state funding in her work.


"I wouldn't be in this room were it not for the public funding that I received from Scotland for free higher education and then later in the form of artists' bursaries and grants," she said, after being presented her award by Nigerian novelist Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie at the Tate Britain gallery in London.


Founded in 1984, the Turner Prize is awarded annually to a UK-based artist or collective. Other nominees for this year's award included artists Luke Willis Thompson and Naeem Mohaiemen, as well as Forensic Architecture, a multidisciplinary team using the built environment to investigate human rights abuses.
The prize has previously helped launch the careers of high-profile artists, especially in the 1990s when winners included members of the renowned "Young British Artists" movement. Damien Hirst took the prize in 1995, for a body of work including some of his famous formaldehyde sculptures, while Tracey Emin's "My Bed" installation won the title four years later.
Other high-profile winners include sculptor Anish Kapoor and potter Grayson Perry.






CNN Staff
Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, surprised guests at the British Fashion Awards Monday night, as she made an unexpected appearance to honor her wedding dress designer, Clare Waight Keller.
After praising the fashion industry in her "new home of the UK," she named Keller, Givenchy's artistic director, as British Womenswear Designer of the Year.
Actress Rosamund Pike was initially scheduled to present the award. But after reading out the finalists, she welcomed a "special guest" to join her. Markle then appeared in a black one-shoulder Givenchy dress to rapturous applause from the star-studded London audience.
She described Keller as a "British designer leading on the global stage with vision and creativity, but also with incredible kindness," before announcing her the winner of the prestigious award.




Taking to the stage, a visibly shocked Keller described the surprise as "an incredibly special moment."
"This woman is so amazing, and I got to know Meghan on such a personal level," the designer said in her acceptance speech. "And to have someone like that trust you in an incredible moment in their life, is something that is just the most unbelievable honor and I can't thank you enough. It was just the most beautiful moment."


The award tops off a notable year for Keller, who was thrust into the international spotlight when she designed the wedding dress for Markle's nuptials in May. The ivory silk dress was modern and feminine, with a shoulder-framing bateau neckline, simple A-line silhouette, and slim three-quarter sleeves. Her design famously featured a 16.5-foot silk tulle veil, which was hand-embroidered with flora representing each of the Commonwealth's 53 countries.


Markle has since been pictured wearing bespoke Givenchy items on a number of occasions, including on her recent tour of Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Tonga.
Elsewhere at the awards, Craig Green was named British Menswear Designer of the Year, while Miuccia Prada was given the Outstanding Achievement Award in recognition of her four-decade fashion career. Cindy Crawford's daughter, 17-year-old Kaia Gerber, was named model of the year.
Sustainability was prominent on this year's agenda. Dame Vivienne Westwood, who has championed environmental issues in her career and promoted ethical fashion, was given the Swarovski Award for Positive Change. A Special Recognition Award for Innovation was handed to environmental group Parley for the Ocean, which has worked with brands like Adidas on clothing lines made from ocean plastic.


Established in 1989, the annual British Fashion Awards is considered one of the biggest events on the European fashion calendar. Industry figures at this year's ceremony included Kate Moss, Virgil Abloh, and Victoria Beckham, one of five designers shortlisted for Keller's womenswear award.
Figures from across the entertainment world were also in attendance at London's Royal Albert Hall, including Brooke Shields, Rita Ora and Robert Pattinson.


• “The Shape of Water” won best picture, and Guillermo del Toro won best director for the film.


• Frances McDormand won best actress for “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.” Gary Oldman won best actor for “Darkest Hour.” Allison Janney won best supporting actress. Sam Rockwell won best supporting actor. See all the winners.


• Ashley Judd, Salma Hayek and Annabella Sciorra — three of Harvey Weinstein’s accusers — took the stage and introduced a segment highlighting the importance of diversity in film.




Fantasy from del Toro wins top Oscar.
LOS ANGELES — The 90th Academy Awards ceremony skittered between the serious and the silly on Sunday night, taking time both to acknowledge #MeToo and to hand out hot dogs at an adjacent movie theater, but the show ultimately emerged as a powerful call for inclusion and diversity in Hollywood.


Guillermo del Toro’s outcast parable, “The Shape of Water,” was honored as best picture, and Mr. del Toro won the best director Oscar. Jordan Peele collected the best original screenplay award for “Get Out,” a movie centered on racism in the liberal white suburbs. And Frances McDormand, winning best actress for her portrayal of a mother seeking justice for her murdered daughter in “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” made a dramatic stand for gender equality in Hollywood.


Continue reading the main story
She thanked “every single person in this building” and her sister before asking the female nominees in the room to stand. “Look around,” she said. “We all have stories to tell and projects we need financed.”




Ms. McDormand’s win was expected, as was Gary Oldman’s (“Darkest Hour”) for best actor.


“If I fall over, pick me up, because I’ve got some things to say,” Ms. McDormand said.


Ms. McDormand finished with, “I have two words to say: inclusion rider,” a reference to a practice by which stars add a clause to film contracts that insists on diversity on both sides of the camera.


Jodie Foster, appearing on crutches and joking that the reason was a run-in with Meryl Streep, presented best actress with Jennifer Lawrence, in lieu of last year’s best-actor winner, Casey Affleck. Mr. Affleck bypassed the ceremony amid continued criticism for settling sexual harassment suits in the past.


In a halting acceptance speech, Mr. Oldman thanked the film’s director and producers; Winston Churchill; his wife, Gisele Schmid; and his 99-year-old mother, who he said was home watching on the sofa. “Put the kettle on,” he said. “I’m bringing Oscar home.”


It was a democratic Oscars over all.




Only two of the nine best picture nominees went home empty-handed: “Lady Bird” and “The Post.” The other seven collected at least one award each, preventing any one film from sweeping the ceremony.


Winners included legends who had never before won, among them James Ivory (“Call Me by Your Name”) and Roger A. Deakins (“Blade Runner 2049”), and first-time nominees like Jordan Peele, who landed best original screenplay for “Get Out,” and Allison Janney, a television stalwart who won over the film academy with her supporting work in the darkly comedic Tonya Harding biopic “I, Tonya.”


“I’ve been at this a long time,” said Mr. Deakins, a 14-time nominee. “Thank you. Thank you very much.” He started his career in the 1970s and was first nominated in 1995, for “The Shawshank Redemption.”




‘I am an immigrant.’
Mr. del Toro’s best director honor was widely expected — he took the top prize at several preceding awards shows — and he was an omnipresent darling of the awards circuit, at one point bringing a case of tequila to an awards function. The win meant that Mr. del Toro had finally won the acceptance of Hollywood, after being looked down on as a horror director for much of his career.


“I am an immigrant,” an emotional Mr. del Toro started his acceptance speech by saying, continuing to note that art has the power to “erase the lines in the sand” between people of different ethnicities. “We should continue doing that when the world tells us to make them deeper.”


The best picture award was presented by Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway, who because of a mix-up backstage by PwC, mistakenly announced last year’s best picture winner as “La La Land” instead of “Moonlight.”


“I want to dedicate to every young filmmaker — the youth who are showing us how things are done,” said Mr. del Toro when he accepted the award for best picture. “The Shape of Water” also won for Alexandre Desplat’s score and Paul Denham Austerberry’s production design.




Mr. Peele, who wrote and directed “Get Out,” received a raucous standing ovation for winning best original screenplay, signaling the Hollywood establishment’s respect for his movie and also his arrival as a certified member of that elite group. He thanked his mother, who, he said, “Taught me to love even in the face of hate.”


Mr. Ivory, 89, a four-time nominee, won for best adapted screenplay for the gay romance “Call Me by Your Name.” All people, “whether straight or gay or somewhere in between,” can understand the emotions of a first love, Mr. Ivory said, reading from notes. (Mr. Ivory was previously nominated for directing “A Room With a View,” “Howards End” and “The Remains of the Day.”)




Disney wins another Oscar for animated feature.
Kobe Bryant is now an Oscar winner: “Dear Basketball,” which Mr. Bryant made with the former Disney animator Glen Keane, overcame questions about Mr. Bryant’s past to win the trophy for best animated short — as some members of the audience exchanged incredulous looks. #MeToo activists had said that a 2003 sexual-assault case against Mr. Bryant was reason not to reward the movie. (The case was dismissed.)


“As basketball players, we’re supposed to shut up and dribble,” Mr. Bryant said in an apparent reference to the Fox News host Laura Ingraham’s recent criticism of LeBron James for speaking out against President Trump. Mr. Bryant went on to thank his wife and daughters.


Disney continued its Oscars dominance, as Pixar’s “Coco” was named best animated feature, Disney’s sixth straight victory in the category. “Representation matters!” shouted its co-director, Lee Unkrich, a reference to the characters and story line of the film, which is centered on Mexico’s Day of the Dead celebration.
“Coco” also delivered the best song winner, “Remember Me,” written by Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez. “Not only are we diverse, but we are close to 50-50 for gender representation,” said Ms. Anderson-Lopez, noting her fellow song nominees. She said she looked forward to the day when “all the categories look like this one.”


The first hour and a half of the Oscars ceremony honored a wide variety of films.


“Phantom Thread,” Paul Thomas Anderson’s period romance about an obsessive dressmaker, won for costume design. Best hairstyling and makeup went to the World War II drama “Darkest Hour.” The Oscar for production design was given to “The Shape of Water.”


“Dunkirk,” Christopher Nolan’s layered war epic, collected Oscars for sound mixing, sound editing and film editing. “Blade Runner 2049” proved victorious in the visual effects category.


As expected, Ms. Janney completed her awards-season winning streak.


“I did it all by myself,” Ms. Janney said, arriving at the microphone, to prolonged applause. She then added, “Nothing is further from the truth,” and ran through a list of names at light speed.


“A Fantastic Woman,” from Chile, was named best foreign film. Rita Moreno, who won a supporting actress Oscar in 1962 for “West Side Story,” presented the prize. In keeping with the telecast’s theme of looking back at celebrated performances, a clip highlighted Ms. Moreno’s performance in “West Side Story.”
Netflix film wins best documentary.


In a surprise, the Oscar for best documentary went to “Icarus,” a Netflix film about systematic Russian doping at the Olympics. (Russia was banned from the recent Pyeongchang Games, though some of its athletes were still allowed to compete.) It was Netflix’s first Oscar for a feature film, having won last year’s prize for best documentary short, for “White Helmets.”


The expected winner had been “Faces Places,” a lighter, more nuanced film about Agnès Varda — known as the grandmother of the French new wave — and the environmental photographer JR. Netflix mounted a lavish campaign for “Icarus,” raising eyebrows in the rather staid documentary filmmaking community.
• “Moonlight” is best picture. In a bewildering end to the show, “La La Land” was first announced as the winner before its jubilant cast and crew were interrupted with a scarcely believable correction.


• Emma Stone won best actress for “La La Land.” Casey Affleck won best actor for “Manchester by the Sea.”


• “La La Land” won six Oscars, including best director, best original score and best song (denying Lin-Manuel Miranda an EGOT in the process). The film had 14 nominations, tied for the most ever.


• Jimmy Kimmel hosted the show.


• Here’s a red carpet slide show and a fashion review.
LOS ANGELES — In an epic flub that drew gasps of horror — and joy — at the Dolby Theater here, Faye Dunaway mistakenly named “La La Land” best picture at the 89th Academy Awards on Sunday night, but in reality “Moonlight” won the top prize.


The producers of “La La Land” were still thanking their families and fellow artists when the interjection came that “Moonlight” had in fact won, as everyone wondered if that was a joke. But it wasn’t, and the “La La Land” people quickly exited the stage as producers and stars of “Moonlight,” just as stunned as everyone else, walked on.


Continue reading the main story
Warren Beatty and Ms. Dunaway had presented the best picture award. When Mr. Beatty opened the envelope, he took an extended pause before showing the card to Ms. Dunaway, who then announced “La La Land” as the winner.


“I want to tell you what happened,” Mr. Beatty said in the chaotic moments after “Moonlight” was announced as the winner. “I opened the envelope, and it said ‘Emma Stone, La La Land.’ That’s why I took such a long look at Faye and at you. I wasn’t trying to be funny. This is ‘Moonlight,’ the best picture.”


“Moonlight,” the story of a young, gay, black man, won three statuettes in total, including best adapted screenplay and best supporting actor.


“Very clearly, even in my dreams this could not be true,” said Barry Jenkins, the director of “Moonlight.” “But to hell with dreams, I’m done with it, because this is true. Oh my goodness.”


Slide Show


Held up as an escapist, believe-in-yourself antidote for the times, the neo-musical “La La Land” won six Oscars, including statuettes for Damien Chazelle’s directing and Ms. Stone’s acting, during a jaunty ceremony that swung between self-celebration and political acrimony — before its wild ending.


“It threw me more than a bit,” Mahershala Ali, who won best supporting actor for “Moonlight,” said backstage. “I just didn’t want to go up there and take anything from somebody, you know?”


PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting firm that handles the Oscars balloting, took responsibility for the mixup. “We sincerely apologize to ‘Moonlight,’ ‘La La Land,’ Warren Beatty, Faye Dunaway and Oscar viewers for the error,” the firm said in a statement. “The presenters had mistakenly been given the wrong category envelope and when discovered, was immediately corrected. We are currently investigating how this could have happened.”


ABC News tweeted out a photo that showed that the envelope in Mr. Beatty’s hand read “Actress in a Leading Role.”
After the show, Ms. Stone said on ABC that she had held onto the envelope with the card bearing her name after she won best actress.


In a blog post published on Medium this month, Brian Cullinan and Martha Ruiz of the firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, explained the process of handling the envelopes for the Oscars. Mr. Cullinan wrote that he and Ms. Ruiz each had a full set of envelopes and stood on opposite sides of the stage, where they handed envelopes to presenters.


“It doesn’t sound very complicated,” Mr. Cullinan said, “but you have to make sure you’re giving the presenter the right envelope.”


Here are other notable moments from the show:


Diverse Set of Winners
“Hacksaw Ridge,” the true story of a heroic World War II medic, won Oscars for sound mixing and film editing, a category that is often predictive of the best picture winner. Kenneth Lonergan won the best screenplay statuette for his “Manchester by the Sea,” the story of a grieving New England handyman. Casey Affleck, who played the lead role in Mr. Lonergan’s film, beat Denzel Washington (“Fences”) for best actor.


“I’m just dumbfound I’m included,” Mr. Affleck said.


The supporting acting prizes went to Viola Davis for her work in “Fences,” about a Pittsburgh family in the 1950s, and Mr. Ali for his portrayal of a sympathetic drug dealer in “Moonlight,” which also collected the adapted screenplay Oscar, for Mr. Jenkins and Tarell Alvin McCraney.


“All you people out there who feel like there’s no mirror for you, that your life is not reflected, the academy has your back, the A.C.L.U. has your back, we have your back — and for the next four years, we will not leave you alone, we will not forget you,” Mr. Jenkins said from the stage.


Among the nominees leaving with nothing: “Lion,” an adoption tear-jerker with six nominations, and the box office hit “Hidden Figures,” which had three nods.
As expected, Ms. Davis won the best supporting actress Oscar — her first — for playing a world-weary housewife in “Fences.” (She won best actress at the 2010 Tony Awards for playing the same role onstage. She was the one who decided to drop to the supporting category for the Oscars.)


An intense, nearly overcome Ms. Davis touched on her family, her industry “cheerleaders,” the film’s director (Mr. Washington), graveyards, dashed dreams and the playwright August Wilson, who adapted his “Fences” for the screen and whom Ms. Viola praised as someone who “exhumed and exalted the ordinary people.”
The night’s first award went to Mr. Ali, who tearfully thanked the cast and crew of “Moonlight” and his own family. “Peace and blessings,” he said, avoiding a repeat of the pointed comments he made at previous awards shows about the Trump administration’s travel ban.


After two years when the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences was criticized as racist for overlooking black actors and films about African-American experiences, this year’s nominee list was remarkably diverse. Six black actors received nominations, a record.
The foreign film and documentary races were notably relevant this year.


Among foreign films, the German satire “Toni Erdmann” initially had the momentum. But Mr. Trump’s travel ban put the spotlight on Iran’s entry, “The Salesman,” whose director, Asghar Farhadi, said that he would boycott the ceremony in protest — a decision that may have ultimately helped his film win.


Anousheh Ansari, an American-Iranian businesswoman, accepted the award for “The Salesman” and read a message from Mr. Farhadi. The note said that he was not attending in solidarity with immigrants “who have been disrespected by the inhumane law,” referring to the Trump administration’s travel ban.


Among nonfiction films, Ava DuVernay’s much-esteemed look at mass incarceration, “13th,” was campaigned for aggressively by Netflix, and the civil rights-themed “I Am Not Your Negro” surged late in the season. But the nearly eight-hour is-it-a-mini-series-or-is-it-a-film “O. J.: Made in America” was named best documentary. In accepting the award, Ezra Edelman, the film’s director, dedicated the Oscar to Nicole Brown Simpson, Ronald Goldman and “the victims of police violence, police brutality, racially motivated violence and criminal injustice.”




Best Picture
From its twinkle-toed premiere at the Venice Film Festival last summer, “La La Land,” the tale of starry-eyed strivers reaching for show-business glory, has charmed best picture wins out of prize givers. It has it all — singing, dancing, Ryan Gosling, summer frocks that never wrinkle — along with a muted choir of dissenters who don’t understand all the fuss. One crucial win “La La” missed was the top Screen Actors Guild Award, an Oscar bellwether that went instead to “Hidden Figures,” adding a measure of frisson to a race that’s all but sewn up. That boost for “Hidden Figures” is certainly giving “La La Land” a bit of competition, as is the indie favorite, “Moonlight,” a surprise hit with an ardent fan base. The failure of “La La Land” to land even a SAG nomination is injurious but hardly fatal. (The musical is a two-hander, not an ensemble.)




2017 Oscar Ballot
See this year’s Oscar nominees and make your picks.


Jan. 24, 2017
By now, it is hard to imagine anything stopping the momentum of “La La Land.” It is heading into the Academy Awards with 14 nominations, tying the previous record holders, “Titanic” and “All About Eve.” Another point to remember is that when it comes to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, “best picture” really means “most popular picture.” And “La La Land” is about something that academy voters cherish above all: themselves.


Actress
You know it’s a tight race when Amy Adams and Annette Bening are shut out despite critically lauded performances in equally lauded films. But Emma Stone is the heavy favorite for her turn in “La La Land,” having snagged the Golden Globe, the Bafta and the Screen Actors Guild Award. Whether Ms. Stone really bested her fellow Oscar contenders Meryl Streep, Ruth Negga, Natalie Portman and Isabelle Huppert is a matter of opinion, but other factors work in her favor: She largely carried an enormously popular film, she’s an ingénue in Hollywood’s eyes, she’s well liked by the academy, and she has been nominated for an Oscar before. While Ms. Huppert is putting up stiff competition, it’s almost assuredly Ms. Stone’s year.


Actor
Casey Affleck has been in the Oscar race before but didn’t win. His heart-rending turn in “Manchester by the Sea,” along with his many triumphs all season long, pointed to Oscar gold. Then the Screen Actors Guild Award for best actor went to Denzel Washington (“Fences”), an upset that shocked everyone, even Mr. Washington. Given that the actors’ branch is the academy’s largest, and that most SAG winners go on to nab Oscars, Mr. Washington seems well poised to win. (And for Mr. Affleck, renewed attention to 2010 sexual harassment complaints that he settled didn’t help.) But Mr. Washington already has two Oscars, and only six actors in history have won more. So I’m betting on Mr. Affleck.


Supporting Actress
This category was locked up from the word go. Viola Davis could have easily run for best actress for her performance in “Fences” — and arguably should have, given that she won the Tony for a lead role for the same part when “Fences” ran on Broadway. But Ms. Davis is said to have chosen to run for supporting actress, a less competitive category. Regardless, few doubt it is high time that she won an Oscar. This is her third nomination, and she has already landed more than two dozen awards this season. While her fellow competitors have all gamely shown up to support their films, Ms. Davis owns the category.


Supporting Actor
While there are indications of a possible upset — Dev Patel won the Bafta for “Lion” — odds favor Mahershala Ali from “Moonlight.” Though Mr. Ali spent far less time onscreen than some of his fellow nominees — like Jeff Bridges, who dominated much of “Hell or High Water” — his performance as the tenderhearted drug dealer Juan was one of the season’s most talked about. He also brought peerless grace and elegance to his awards-show appearances, which are crucial to any campaign. It is hard to imagine anyone topping Mr. Ali’s heartfelt “I am a Muslim” acceptance speech from the SAG Awards, except, come Sunday, Mr. Ali himself.


Director
“The Umbrellas of Cherbourg” was released 21 years before Damien Chazelle was born, yet the homage he pays to it and other musicals of yore in his hit, “La La Land,” greatly endeared him to the academy. Although early chatter suggested his fellow nominees Kenneth Lonergan and Barry Jenkins were strong bets, Mr. Chazelle has mopped up big prizes: a Golden Globe, a Bafta and, crucially, the Directors Guild of America Award. The guild’s membership overlaps with the academy’s, and the D.G.A. Awards are largely predictive of Oscars. It also helps that Mr. Chazelle is a known quantity to the academy: His “Whiplash” took home three Oscars in 2015.




Until a few weeks ago, Disney’s “Zootopia,” about a plucky rabbit police officer fighting prejudice and a fear-mongering lamb, seemed a shoo-in for this prize, having collected a Golden Globe and a Producers Guild Award. But then “Kubo and the Two Strings,” about a Japanese boy on a hero’s quest to defeat an evil spirit, won the Bafta for animated feature, an accolade that usually foretells an academy win. “Kubo” is also up for best visual effects, making it a very strong contender. But “Zootopia” will probably benefit from its timing: It is a love letter to diversity and the triumph of acceptance over xenophobia, a message the film’s campaigners have been pushing all season long.


Documentary
And the Academy Award for best documentary feature goes to … a nearly eight-hour television mini-series. Though the director Ezra Edelman and his backers at ESPN vigorously insist their virtuoso project “O.J.: Made in America” is genuinely a theatrical film rather than one made for TV, the fact is, it is both. And that has done nothing to stop Mr. Edelman from winning almost every major documentary award this season, among them a Producers Guild prize. While some believe the television lineage of “O.J.” will undercut its chances with the academy — and note that the Bafta for best documentary went to Ava DuVernay’s “13th” (“O.J.” wasn’t eligible) — odds are that Mr. Edelman will be collecting an Oscar.


Foreign-Language Film
Early in the season, the momentum seemed to be behind “Toni Erdmann,” a German satire with a run time of nearly three hours that thrilled critics. But that is long to sit through for a foreign film, especially for voters watching screeners. After France’s entry, “Elle,” failed to be nominated, energy seemed to shift to Sweden’s “A Man Called Ove.” But then came the White House travel ban, which drew attention to Iran’s much lauded entry, “The Salesman,” by Asghar Farhadi, who announced that he would boycott the ceremony in protest. Mr. Farhadi won an Oscar for his 2011 drama “A Separation.” This time, voting for him has become political, which will probably give him the edge.




Original Screenplay
“Manchester by the Sea,” a poignant and at times wry tale of a Massachusetts man gripped by grief, made history this year by becoming the first film to land a best picture Oscar nomination for a streaming service (its distributor is Amazon). Yet the film’s best picture chances are slim, thanks to the juggernaut that is “La La Land.” But Kenneth Lonergan, the “Manchester” director, is expected to win the Oscar for best original screenplay. Few match his skills at capturing and conveying onscreen the idiosyncrasies, awkwardness and absurdities of everyday conversation and life. Also bolstering Mr. Lonergan’s chances: His script isn’t up against “Moonlight,” which was deemed an adaptation and has passionate support.


Adapted Screenplay
Whether Barry Jenkins’s screenplay for “Moonlight,” a cinematic tone poem about growing up poor, black and gay, should be considered adapted or original is in the eye of the beholder. The Writers Guild of America and Bafta organizers deemed it original, but the academy decided it was an adaptation of an unproduced stage piece by Tarell Alvin McCraney, who receives story credit. The academy’s designation certainly helped the film’s chances in the adapted category by not pitting it against “Manchester by the Sea,” which took home the original screenplay Bafta. Still, “Moonlight” ended up besting “Manchester” for original screenplay at the Writers Guild Awards. Confusing? Sure. But in the end, it makes the movie the favorite here.


##




The 1931 China floods or the 1931 Yangtze-Huai River floods were a series of devastating floods that occurred in the Republic of China. They were some of the deadliest floods in history, and together formed one of the most lethal natural disasters of the 20th century, excluding pandemics and famines.Estimates of the total death toll range from 422,499 to between 3.7 million and 4 million.At the time the government estimated that 25 million people had been affected by the flood.Historians since have suggested that the true number may have been as many as 53 million.Estimated death tolls also vary widely. Contemporary studies conducted by John Lossing Buck suggested that at least 150,000 people had drowned in the first few months of the flood, with hundreds of thousands more dying of starvation and disease over the following year. Using contemporary media reports, Chinese historians led by Li Wenhai have calculated the death toll at around 422,499. Contemporary government sources suggested that the figure may have been as high as two million. Some Western sources have given a far higher death toll of between 3.7 and 4 million people.




The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake occurred at 00:58:53 UTC on 26 December, with an epicentre off the west coast of northern Sumatra and a magnitude of 9.1–9.3 Mw, reaching a Mercalli intensity up to IX in certain areas. It was an undersea megathrust earthquake caused by a rupture along the fault between the Burma Plate and the Indian Plate.A series of large tsunamis up to 30 metres (100 ft) high were created by the earthquake that became known collectively as the Boxing Day tsunamis. These tsunamis flooded communities along the coasts of the Indian Ocean and killed an estimated 227,898 people in 14 countries; the Indonesian city of Banda Aceh reported the largest number of victims. The earthquake was one of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded history and the deadliest of the 21st century. Indonesia was the hardest-hit country, followed by Sri Lanka, India, and Thailand.
The earthquake was the third largest ever recorded and had the longest duration of faulting ever observed; between eight and ten minutes. It caused the planet to vibrate as much as 1 centimetre (0.4 inches), and it remotely triggered earthquakes as far away as Alaska.Its epicentre was between Simeulue and mainland Sumatra. The plight of the affected people and countries prompted a worldwide humanitarian response, with donations totaling more than US$14 billion.The event is known by the scientific community as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake.




MORE THAN A DOZEN tornadoes touched down in Illinois on Saturday in a rare occurrence for December, knocking out power to thousands and causing widespread destruction.
At least 18 tornadoes hit central and southwest Illinois, making it the largest December tornado outbreak since 1957, according to the National Weather Service.
The town of Taylorville, about 30 miles southeast of Springfield, was hardest hit, with hundreds of houses damaged and power lines knocked down. The storm in Taylorville resulted in 34 homes severely damaged or destroyed, 66 homes with major damage and 406 homes that were damaged but inhabitable. Preliminary measurements deem the tornado a high-end EF-2.
Much like hurricanes, tornadoes are classified into categories based on their wind speed. The Enhanced Fujita scale used to classify tornadoes has six categories ranging from EF-0 to EF-5. Labeled an EF-2 tornado, the one in Taylorville had winds between 111 and 135 mph, resulting in "considerable" damage. According to the weather service, the tornado was about half a mile wide.
Other recorded tornadoes in the state on Saturday were classified as EF-1, or 86-110 mph, and EF-0, 65-85 mph. No deaths were recorded, but about two dozen people were injured.
The tornado in Taylorville downed more than 30 utility poles, leaving thousands without power over the weekend. As of Sunday night, power had been restored to about 82 percent of customers in the area, but 250 homes experienced "significant damage," and power was not expected to be restored until Monday.
Gov. Bruce Rauner toured the area of Taylorville on Sunday and said "it's a miracle no one was killed."
According to CNN, the state sees an average of 47 tornadoes every year, with May as the peak month. No averages exist for the month of December, making an occurrence like the weekend's tornadoes extremely rare.
Other central U.S. states saw severe weather over the weekend as well. At a naval base in Georgia, a tornado flipped a Coast Guard ship, injuring several people. Other tornadoes were recorded in Arkansas and Oklahoma, damaging structures and property, and several more were recorded in Missouri, resulting in the death of one person.


TWO WILDFIRES RAGING IN California have burned tens of thousands of acres, destroyed hundreds of structures and killed more than 30 people.
The Camp Fire in Northern California and the Woolsey fire in Southern California began Nov. 8 from an unknown cause. As of Sunday, the Woolsey fire, burning near Malibu, Calabasas and Thousand Oaks, has burned 85,000 acres. It is 15 percent contained, two people have died and three firefighters have been injured. More than 175 structures have been destroyed.


The Camp Fire, burning in Butte County, is one of the deadliest wildfires in California's history, killing 29 people and injuring three firefighters. It has burned 111,000 acres and is 25 percent contained. More than 6,700 structures have been destroyed.
An additional 228 people are unaccounted for as a result of the fire, Butte County Sheriff and Coroner Kory Honea said Sunday, CNN reported.
The cause of both fires is under investigation and more than 300,000 people have evacuated their homes.
On Sunday, Cal Fire said there were "favorable overnight weather conditions," which "contributed to minimal" growth of the Woolsey fire. This allowed fire crews to reinforce containment lines. More than 3,220 personnel are working to contain the fire, and 450 engines, 40 water tenders, 22 helicopters, 54 hand crews and 50 dozers are also fighting the blaze. Air tankers are also flying to disperse fire suppression.
Mandatory evacuation orders are in effect for cities in Ventura County, Los Angeles County and the city of Los Angeles. Highways and road closures are also in effect.
The Camp Fire has 4,555 personnel working to contain it. More than 570 engines, 59 water tenders, 21 helicopters, 91 hand crews and 88 dozers are also working. Air tankers are flying on fire suppression missions.
More than a dozen roads are closed and evacuation orders are in effect for almost 30 communities. The Camp Fire is also affecting water systems in the area, the Butte County Sheriff's Office tweeted. The state's water board and Butte Public Health advised residents to boil water.
On Sunday, Cal Fire said that strong winds are expected to continue though Monday and there is low humidity in the area. "Moderate to extreme fire behavior are possible," but "firefighters will continue to conduct structure defense and perimeter control."


A 7.0 MAGNITUDE earthquake shook Alaska Friday morning, prompting tsunami warnings for several cities across the state.


According to the United States Geological Survey, the earthquake struck about 10 miles north of Anchorage around 8:30 a.m. local time on Friday. It was followed by several aftershocks, including one at magnitude 5.7, and prompted tsunami warnings by the United States National Tsunami Warning Center.


Warnings were in effect for coastal areas of the Cook Inlet in southern Alaska and the southern Kenai Peninsula. The Tsunami Warning Center forecast tsunami times to be 9:25 a.m. for Kodiak, 9:30 a.m. in Seward and 11:45 a.m. in Homer. The risk to other areas near the earthquake was still being evaluated.


"For other U.S. and Canadian Pacific coasts in North America, the level of tsunami danger is being evaluated. Further information will be provided in supplementary messages," the center said.


The Anchorage School District was "assessing building safety and damages" and advised parents to pick up their children when they felt it was safe. The District was also relocating students from several schools to fire stations and other schools, tweeting that parents should pick their children up from those locations.


Alaska's Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management warned residents of aftershocks and instructed them to "drop, cover and hold on" when an earthquake strikes.


The earthquake center tweeted that the damages in Anchorage were being assessed and, as of 9:15 a.m. local time, widespread power outages had been seen along with "non-specific reports of damage."




HEAVY RAINS HEADED INTO the Northern California area are expected to help firefighters still battling devastating wildfires, but officials fear the storms could spark mudslides that will complicate recovery efforts.


At least 81 people are dead and 870 more remain missing as a result of the Woolsey Fire and the Camp Fire, the deadliest wildfire in California's history.


Not only could the rain delay search and rescue missions, the storms could also trigger mudslides and floods that could wash away any remains of victims, making identification almost impossible. The Los Angeles Times reports that authorities are worried that bones could sink in floods and get buried in debris, making it extremely difficult to recover remains and preventing cadaver dogs from finding victims if water washes away the scent.


Meteorologists predict that the area could see up to 6 inches of rain through Saturday, with the worst of it coming Thanksgiving night. Flash flood watches are in effect, and people have been warned to be on alert for rock slides and flowing debris.


Monterey County Sheriff's Cmdr. Joe Moses told The Times that the mix of ash and rain will make a "paste-like substance," which will "stick to everything and slow things down."


The effects of the Camp and Woolsey fires are being felt far beyond the communities they have destroyed. Smoke from the fires has made its way more than 3,000 miles across the U.S. to parts of the East Coast. People in New York this week saw smoke in the sky as it traveled in an arc across the country and made its way out over the Atlantic Ocean.


According to Cal Fire, the Camp and Woolsey fires have burned 250,280 acres and destroyed 20,074 structures. Approximately 4,000 firefighters are fighting the blaze using 305 fire engines, 37 bulldozers, 80 hand crews, 42 water tenders and eight helicopters.


CHICO, CALIF. — AFTER barely getting out of Paradise alive before the Camp Fire turned her town to ash, Patty Saunders, 89, now spends her days and nights in a reclining chair inside the shelter at East Ave Church 16 miles away.


It hurts too much to move. She needs a hip replacement and her legs are swollen. Next to her is a portable commode, and when it's time to go, nurses and volunteers help her up and hold curtains around her to give her some measure of privacy.


"Never in my life did I think I would end up in a situation like this, but when it's time to go, you got to go," Saunders said. Under the circumstances, she is in good spirits, with a rotating cast of people stopping by to chat and take care of her.


Most of the fire victims here are older folks like her. They rest on cots, inflatable beds and recliners in a pop-up community of nearly 200 evacuees displaced by the Camp Fire and an army of volunteers.


The Camp Fire, the deadliest in state history, took ruthless aim at older people. Paradise, the Northern California town erased by fire, was largely a retirement community, with a quarter of the population 65 and older. The fire's death toll was 77 at last count, and nearly 1,000 people were still unaccounted for — most of them seniors. The sheriff's list of the missing includes many in their 70s and 80s.


Like everyone else in the wildfire's path, older people fled swiftly, if they escaped at all, often leaving behind medications, wheelchairs, walkers and essential medical equipment.


Altogether, around 50,000 people are thought to have evacuated, now staying in motels, cars, shelters and a makeshift camp at Walmart in Chico. But the elderly refugees often need more support, especially with chronic conditions and infections that incubate and spread in close quarters. Some need dialysis but can't get it. Others have respiratory illnesses aggravated by smoke. One woman in a Yuba City shelter was recovering from cancer surgery with a stapled wound.


"It's been rough," said Joy Beeson, 76, an evacuee who landed in the Chico church shelter. "Lost a couple of bedmates the other night. They all went to the hospital."


They were felled by norovirus — a nasty stomach illness that causes diarrhea and vomiting. People were throwing up all day. Then, in the middle of night, paramedics came and removed the sickest, according to some evacuees.


Last week, nearly all the shelters from Chico to Yuba City were hit by an outbreak of the stomach illness — sending dozens to hospitals. Last week, the Butte County Public Health Department said 145 people in the shelters had been sick with the virus. Fearful volunteers and evacuees rarely shake hands anymore; fist bumps and elbow knocks are highly encouraged.


TWO WILDFIRES RAGING IN California have burned tens of thousands of acres, destroyed hundreds of structures and killed more than 30 people.


The Camp Fire in Northern California and the Woolsey fire in Southern California began Nov. 8 from an unknown cause. As of Sunday, the Woolsey fire, burning near Malibu, Calabasas and Thousand Oaks, has burned 85,000 acres. It is 15 percent contained, two people have died and three firefighters have been injured. More than 175 structures have been destroyed.


[ PHOTOS: Massive Wildfires Tear Through California ]
The Camp Fire, burning in Butte County, is one of the deadliest wildfires in California's history, killing 29 people and injuring three firefighters. It has burned 111,000 acres and is 25 percent contained. More than 6,700 structures have been destroyed.


An additional 228 people are unaccounted for as a result of the fire, Butte County Sheriff and Coroner Kory Honea said Sunday, CNN reported.


The cause of both fires is under investigation and more than 300,000 people have evacuated their homes.


On Sunday, Cal Fire said there were "favorable overnight weather conditions," which "contributed to minimal" growth of the Woolsey fire. This allowed fire crews to reinforce containment lines. More than 3,220 personnel are working to contain the fire, and 450 engines, 40 water tenders, 22 helicopters, 54 hand crews and 50 dozers are also fighting the blaze. Air tankers are also flying to disperse fire suppression.


Mandatory evacuation orders are in effect for cities in Ventura County, Los Angeles County and the city of Los Angeles. Highways and road closures are also in effect.


The Camp Fire has 4,555 personnel working to contain it. More than 570 engines, 59 water tenders, 21 helicopters, 91 hand crews and 88 dozers are also working. Air tankers are flying on fire suppression missions.


More than a dozen roads are closed and evacuation orders are in effect for almost 30 communities. The Camp Fire is also affecting water systems in the area, the Butte County Sheriff's Office tweeted. The state's water board and Butte Public Health advised residents to boil water.


On Sunday, Cal Fire said that strong winds are expected to continue though Monday and there is low humidity in the area. "Moderate to extreme fire behavior are possible," but "firefighters will continue to conduct structure defense and perimeter control."


On Sept. 21, 1938, a powerful hurricane surprised New England, killing hundreds of people, rendering thousands more homeless and giving rise to an entire literary subgenre. “I have made people weep,” Everett S. Allen, who experienced the storm as a rookie newspaper reporter in New Bedford, Mass., wrote decades later, “by asking them to remember what for many of them remains their most terrible day.”


Long, in this latest look at the catastrophe, promises a fresh take: the story of the thousand square miles of forestland flattened by the winds and of the roughly 30,000 people who depended upon them. Timber — still an important fuel source at the time as well as raw material for everything from shipping boxes to homes — was a prized resource that the nascent field of forestry was just beginning to understand how to manage. But though Long is an able researcher, he struggles to paint a vivid picture of the rural New Englander who having “saved and nurtured his timberland to tide him over in later life” emerged from cover to find his “bank account” empty, as one local official described the situation in a plea for federal aid. All natural disasters offer distinct narrative gifts: Act 1, calm; Act 2, chaos; Act 3, reckoning. But Long’s somewhat scattered narrative fails to claim them, leaving the tragedy of “the people whose lives were ruined by the raging storm” largely untold.




ROME — Violent thunderstorms, small tornadoes that blew roofs off homes, and hurricane-force winds lashed Italy from Piedmont to Sicily early this week, leaving at least 11 people dead, many more injured and firefighters and other rescue workers scrambling to respond to emergency calls.

In Venice, ferocious winds drove the high tide to more than 61 inches, or 156 centimeters, above average sea level on Monday, one of the highest levels ever recorded, plunging much of the city under water. It was the highest flood in a decade in Venice, though far short of the record, more than 76 inches above level, set in November 1966.

The high tide in Venice was more than 61 inches, or 156 centimeters, above average sea level on Monday.

Venetians and tourists tottered on raised walkways throughout the city, while others waded through thigh-high water. Many shops and restaurants flooded when barriers across doorways failed to keep the water out.

Some tourists decided to go for a swim in famed Saint Mark’s Square, in front of the city’s cathedral.

The cathedral itself was damaged by flooding as water submerged part of the floor in the central part of the basilica for only the fifth recorded time in its nine-century history, officials said. The water covered “several dozens of square meters” of the marble pavement in front of the altar of the Madonna Nicopeia, a 12th century icon, and submerged the baptistery, the board responsible for the building said in a statement.

Near the covered entrance to the basilica, the mosaic floor was under as much as 35 inches of water, it said, “soaking the monumental bronze doors, columns and marble.” Water levels remained above ground in the basilica for 16 hours.

“It may not be visible to the eye, but structures age because of the salt water drenching the bricks, which were not meant to remain underwater for long; that goes for bronze, too,” said Pierpaolo Campostrini, one of the board members. “The bricks are like sponges, and if the water levels don’t drop, the water rises several meters to the mosaic level.”

“In one day, the basilica aged 20 years,” he said.

An editorial on Tuesday in the Venice daily Il Gazzettino asked what had happened to the Moses Project, the divisive, still-unfinished, multibillion-dollar system of floodgates that has been under construction for years. Venice, built on a lagoon of the Adriatic on Italy’s northeastern coast, has always been vulnerable to flooding, and the system of barriers is supposed to offer some protection as global warming and rising seas make the threat worse.

Editors’ Picks

Disney Is Spending More on Theme Parks Than It Did on Pixar, Marvel and Lucasfilm Combined

Remarkable People We Overlooked in Our Obituaries

Cancer Pushes New York’s ‘First Girlfriend,’ Sandra Lee, Onto Political Stage
“If there was one day it would have been useful, it was yesterday,” the editorial read.

Mr. Campostrini, of St. Mark’s, agreed. “That event shouldn’t have happened, not if the Moses Project had been operational,” he said.

Winds reached 112 miles per hour in Liguria, on Italy’s northwest coast, one of the hardest-hit regions. The Italian news agency ANSA described a “massacre of yachts” in the town of Rapallo, near Genoa, where dozens of boats moored in the port broke loose and crashed against the shore or were driven out to sea.

A storm destroyed the provincial road to Portofino, isolating the picturesque coastal town and stranding residents and tourists. ANSA reported that the eldest son of former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, Pier Silvio, was stranded with his family in the area, in the castle that he owns. Pier Silvio is deputy chairman and chief executive of the family media group Mediaset.

Hundreds of people were evacuated from their homes in towns in the mountainous Trentino-Alto Adige region, northwest of Venice, after rivers rose over their banks. Newspapers described fish swimming in the streets of one town.

In some places, hillsides soaked by heavy rain gave way.

The operational command of the Civil Protection Department met late Monday to coordinate and deploy disaster relief teams throughout the country, where winds and rains continued with force on Tuesday.

Schools remained closed on Tuesday in many regions. Century-old pine trees toppled in Rome, blocking roads and clogging traffic.

Heavy rain in Monterosso al Mare, a village in the Liguria region, on Monday.

Heavy rain in Monterosso al Mare, a village in the Liguria region, on Monday.CreditMarco Bertorello/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
In Venice, the city’s high-water telephone message system warned citizens that high tides on Tuesday and Wednesday would be unusually severe, but not as bad as Monday’s. A “code orange” was in place, with flooding expected to reach more than 43 inches above sea level.

In Naples, many trees fell in the cemetery of Poggioreale, famed for its tombs and monuments, which was closed to the public.

Mayor Luigi de Magistris of Naples said on Tuesday that the city had been exposed to “an atmospheric earthquake.”PARIS — Muddy rivers and streams swollen by torrential rains tore through southwestern France on Monday, swamping towns, cutting off roads and killing at least 11 people, according to French officials.


Most of the flooding occurred in the Aude region, named after the river that runs through it, after several months’ worth of rain fell within hours overnight — nearly 14 inches in some places, according to the Interior Ministry.


In Trèbes, near the city of Carcassonne, the official agency that tracks flooding nationwide described the rise in the water level — over 20 feet — as “exceptional,” and said it had nearly reached the record set in 1891. At least six people were killed there, the Interior Ministry said.


Five other people were killed in nearby towns, including a nun who was swept away by the rising waters in Villardonnel, north of Carcassonne. Eight people in the region were injured, and one was reported missing, according to a statement from the Aude prefecture, the local state authority.


In Villegailhenc, video posted by witnesses on social media showed river waters rushing through a gap where a bridge had crumbled and been carried away.


One of the witnesses was Inès Siguet, a 17-year-old high school student. In a telephone interview from her home, which was spared because it is located high up in the village, Ms. Siguet said she realized how quickly the waters had risen when she set out around 6 a.m. to take her bus to Carcassonne.




Classes were canceled on Monday, and her school will remain closed on Tuesday.


“I went back home and I changed clothes to help other inhabitants, to evacuate water, to clean up, to bring furniture upstairs,” she said, calling the experience “shocking” because no one was expecting such violent floods.


“You try to help people to save what can be saved, but there isn’t much you can do,” she said. “One resident cried in my arms because he had just finished work on his house and it was totally ruined.”


The episode was similar to flash floods last week on the Spanish island of Majorca, where 12 people died.




The local authorities, warning that more flooding was expected late into Monday, urged residents to stay inside and to avoid traveling. Over 10,000 homes in the Aude and neighboring Hérault area lost power, many schools were closed and public transportation ground to a halt.


After meeting with emergency services and local residents in the area, Prime Minister Édouard Philippe, who is also the acting Interior minister, told reporters on Monday afternoon that some houses had suffered “very heavy” material damage and that many of the flooding victims he had met were scared.


“They see their business, their home, their means of getting to work carried away by the flood,” Mr. Philippe said.


Homes lost power, schools were closed and public transportation ground to a halt as a result of the floods.


The government, he said, will move quickly to declare the floods a natural catastrophe, a step that helps victims file insurance claims.


The Élysée Palace said that a cabinet reshuffle that has been in the works for over a week would not be announced on Monday, and that President Emmanuel Macron would head to the Aude region “as soon as possible.”


Hundreds of firefighters, emergency workers and police officers were deployed across the area, sometimes using helicopters to lift residents off the roofs of their flooded homes. In the village of Pezens, about 1,000 residents were evacuated because of the risk that a nearby dam would overflow.


Flash flooding in the region is not uncommon in the fall, when warm air masses from the south cross over the Mediterranean and encounter the cooler southwestern tip of the Massif Central mountains, creating instability that can lead to exceptional rainfall and violent thunderstorms.


Hurricane Michael made landfall on the Florida Panhandle last Wednesday as what Gov. Rick Scott called, “the worst storm that our Florida Panhandle has seen in a century.” Packing maximum sustained winds of 155 miles an hour, the storm rolled ashore midday and pummeled the coast with rain, wind and storm surges.

Residents are beginning to return to assess the damage and start the long, slow road to recovery.

The photographers Gabriella Angotti-Jones, Emily Kask,  Chang Lee, Scott McIntyre, Johnny Milano and Eric Thayer have been on the ground in Florida covering the storm for The New York Times. We’ll continue updating this feed with their latest work.


MADRID — Flash floods caused by torrential rains killed at least 10 people on the Spanish island of Majorca and burst the banks of a river, washing away vehicles and engulfing a town in muddy water.


Hundreds of emergency workers, with the help of helicopters and sniffer dogs, were searching throughout the day for other victims, and one child was still missing as of Wednesday evening.


The flood hit Tuesday night and cut off the town of Sant Llorenç des Cardassar, which is home to about 8,000 people and is about 40 miles from Palma, the island’s capital city.


On Wednesday morning, an official from the region told Cadena Ser, a Spanish radio station, that the victims included a British couple who had been traveling in a taxi that was caught in the flash flood. The taxi driver is missing, according to the official, Catalina Cladera.


One of the other victims was reported to be the former mayor of the municipality, Rafael Gili, 71.


Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez flew to Majorca on Wednesday to visit the disaster area, which has gained some measure of fame because it was used as the location for “Love Island,” a British reality television program.


“The important thing is to offer certainty that the government will use all the necessary resources to ensure those affected can return to their daily lives,” Mr. Sánchez said during his visit to the island.


The leader of Spain’s main opposition conservative party, Pablo Casado, also flew to the island on Wednesday to offer his support and condolences.


Five roads remained blocked on Wednesday afternoon as emergency services worked to clear debris around the disaster area.


More rain was forecast for Majorca and the rest of the Balearic archipelago on Wednesday, as well as for other parts of Spain, and the southern coast of the mainland, around the province of Málaga, was put on a red alert by Spain’s official weather agency because of the expected downpour.


Majorca is one of Spain’s main tourism destinations, to the point that this year Palma became the first city in Spain to introduce a ban on short-term apartment rentals through Airbnb and other home-sharing websites to help free up more accommodation for local residents.


Palma was largely spared damage on Tuesday by the deluge, which was mostly focused on the northeastern part of the island. Although the area is less visited than other parts of Majorca, it has a strong rural tourism sector.


Officials told local news media that three people had been injured and about 200 people had to evacuate their houses because of the flooding in Sant Llorenç des Cardassar that was caused by two hours of intense rain. Many residents spent the night in a nearby sports center.


SANTIAGO, Chile — A magnitude 5.5 earthquake swayed buildings in the Chilean capital of Santiago on Wednesday, but there were no immediate reports of damage or injury.

The U.S. Geological Survey says the quake hit at 2:12 p.m. local time (12:12 p.m. EST; 1712 GMT) and was centered 5 miles (8 kilometers) south-southwest of San Antonio, a Pacific coast town about 60 miles (100 kilometers) southwest of the capital.

Witnesses reported buildings swaying in the center of the capital, and said it also was felt in the port of Valparaiso, some 65 miles (105 kilometers) northwest of the capital.

Chile is one of the globe's most quake-prone nations. A magnitude 8.8 quake in 2010, which was followed by a tsunami, killed at least 525 people.





##




Yemen, a country ravaged by two years of intense conflict, is experiencing a rapidly spreading cholera epidemic. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) and UNICEF, as of Wednesday (June 7) the number of suspected cases of the acute, infectious diarrheal illness has reached 101,820, with 791 deaths. Forty six percent of the reported cases are in children under age 15, and 33 percent of the fatalities have been in people over the age of 60.
“I personally received 180 cases in one day,” Mohammed Zaid, a doctor who works at a hospital in Sana’a, Yemen, tells the Guardian. “People are left lying in the corridors, and in some cases we are having to put six children in one bed.”
Cholera typically spreads through contaminated food and water. Without treatment, people with severe cases can die from dehydration within hours. Though the illness can be effectively treated by rapidly replenishing lost fluids and salts, the ongoing war has devastated Yemen’s health, water, and sanitation systems, making it difficult to deliver aid to patients.
“Two years of war have plunged the country into one of the world’s worst humanitarian crises and put Yemen at risk of famine,” Sajjad Mohammed Sajid, Oxfam's Yemen Country Director, says in a statement. “Now it is at the mercy of a deadly and rapidly spreading cholera epidemic. Cholera is simple to treat and prevent, but while the fighting continues the task is made doubly difficult.”
According to the WHO, 14.5 million Yemenis do not have regular access to clean water and sanitation, and medical supplies are entering the country at a third of the rate they were before the civil war started in March 2015.
“We are responding to a major crisis without having the basics,” Geert Cappelaere, UNICEF’s regional director for the Middle East and North Africa, tells the New York Times. “The reality is incredibly dire.”


https://www.mphonline.org/worst-pandemics-in-history/


A category 2 Flu pandemic sometimes referred to as “the Hong Kong Flu,” the 1968 flu pandemic was caused by the H3N2 strain of the Influenza A virus, a genetic offshoot of the H2N2 subtype. From the first reported case on July 13, 1968 in Hong Kong, it took only 17 days before outbreaks of the virus were reported in Singapore and Vietnam, and within three months had spread to The Philippines, India, Australia, Europe, and the United States. While the 1968 pandemic had a comparatively low mortality rate (.5%) it still resulted in the deaths of more than a million people, including 500,000 residents of Hong Kong, approximately 15% of its population at the time.




Asian Flu was a pandemic outbreak of Influenza A of the H2N2 subtype, that originated in China in 1956 and lasted until 1958. In its two-year spree, Asian Flu traveled from the Chinese province of Guizhou to Singapore, Hong Kong, and the United States. Estimates for the death toll of the Asian Flu vary depending on the source, but the World Health Organization places the final tally at approximately 2 million deaths, 69,800 of those in the US alone.






Originally the “Asiatic Flu” or “Russian Flu” as it was called, this strain was thought to be an outbreak of the Influenza A virus subtype H2N2, though recent discoveries have instead found the cause to be the Influenza A virus subtype H3N8. The first cases were observed in May 1889 in three separate and distant locations, Bukhara in Central Asia (Turkestan), Athabasca in northwestern Canada, and Greenland. Rapid population growth of the 19th century, specifically in urban areas, only helped the flu spread, and before long the outbreak had spread across the globe. Though it was the first true epidemic in the era of bacteriology and much was learned from it. In the end, the 1889-1890 Flu Pandemic claimed the lives of over a million individuals.


Thought to have killed perhaps half the population of Europe, the Plague of Justinian was an outbreak of the bubonic plague that afflicted the Byzantine Empire and Mediterranean port cities, killing up to 25 million people in its year long reign of terror. Generally regarded as the first recorded incident of the Bubonic Plague, the Plague of Justinian left its mark on the world, killing up to a quarter of the population of the Eastern Mediterranean and devastating the city of Constantinople, where at its height it was killing an estimated 5,000 people per day and eventually resulting in the deaths of 40% of the city’s population.


In the past 200 hundred years, seven cholera pandemics have killed millions across the globe. The seventh is still going on, but advancements in medical science have greatly reduced the number of people who die from it.
In addition, modern-day sewage and water treatment systems have largely eliminated cholera from developed countries. But it continues to be a concern in the developing world, especially in areas ravaged by war and natural disasters such as earthquakes and hurricanes that leave people without access to clean drinking water.


These are the major cholera outbreaks:


1961 to present
Unlike the first six, the seventh pandemic originated in Indonesia. It ravaged populations across Asia and the Middle East, eventually reaching Africa by 1971. By 1973, the pandemic had spread to Italy. There were also small outbreaks of the same strain — El Tor — in Japan and the South Pacific late in the same decade.




In 1991, 100 years after cholera was vanquished from South America, there was an outbreak in Peru that spread across the continent, killing 10,000 people. It was a similar strain to the seventh pandemic that petered out more than a decade earlier.
An outbreak among Rwandan refugee camps in the Democratic Republic of Congo killed tens of thousands in 1994.


The World Health Organization reported that nearly 500 people had died in an outbreak in Zimbabwe in the last few months of 2008. The outbreak affected most parts of the country and has so far involved almost 12,000 cases. The outbreak is blamed on deteriorating infrastructure in a climate of political crisis.


In October 2010, at least 250 people in Haiti died in an outbreak of cholera, almost 10 months after a major earthquake devastated the country, killing more than 200,000 people.


The discovery of a new species of the cholera bacteria (O139) in Bangladesh in 1992, which has since been detected in 11 countries, has raised the possibility and fear of an eighth pandemic.


1899-1923
At the turn of the century, the sixth pandemic killed more than 800,000 in India before moving into the Middle East, northern Africa, Russia and parts of Europe. By 1923, cholera had receded from most of the world, although many cases were still present in India.


1881-1896
The fifth pandemic originated in the Bengal region of India and swept through Asia, Africa, South America and parts of France and Germany. Cholera claimed 200,000 lives in Russia between 1893 and 1894; and 90,000 in Japan between 1887 and 1889. Quarantine measures based on the findings of John Snow kept cholera out of Britain and the United States.


In 1892, Waldemar Haffkine, a Ukrainian bacteriologist who worked mostly in India, developed a human vaccine for cholera.


1863-1879
The fourth pandemic began in the Bengal region from which Indian Muslim pilgrims visiting Mecca spread the disease to the Middle East. From there it migrated to Europe, Africa and North America. At least 30,000 of the 90,000 Mecca pilgrims fell victim to the disease.


Cholera claimed 90,000 lives in Russia in 1866.


1852-1859
The third pandemic, generally considered the most deadly, originated once again in India. It devastated large swaths of Asia, Europe, North America and Africa.


In 1854, the worst year, 23,000 died in Britain alone. In that same year, British physician John Snow succeeded in identifying contaminated water as the transmitter of the disease, a breakthrough in eventually bringing it under control.


Snow carefully mapped the cases of cholera in the Soho area in London and traced the source to a water pump. After convincing officials to remove the pump handle, the number of cholera cases in the area immediately declined.


1829-1849
The second pandemic started in India and reached Russia by 1830 before continuing into Finland and Poland. A two-year outbreak began in England in October 1831 and claimed 22,000 lives.


Irish immigrants, fleeing poverty and the potato famine, carried the disease from Europe to North America. On their arrival in the summer of 1832, 1,220 died in Montreal and another thousand across Quebec.


The disease then entered the U.S. through Detroit and New York, and reached Latin America by 1833. Another outbreak across England and Wales began in 1848, killing 52,000 over two years.


1817-1823
The first known pandemic of cholera originated in the Ganges River delta in India. The disease broke out near Calcutta and spread through the rest of the country. By the early 1820s, colonization and trade had carried the disease to Southeast Asia, central Asia, the Middle East, eastern Africa, and the Mediterranean coast.


The death toll from this outbreak is not known, but based on the 10,000 recorded deaths among British troops, researchers estimate that hundreds of thousands across India succumbed to the disease. In 1820, 100,000 people died on the Indonesian island of Java alone. By 1823, cholera had disappeared from most of the world, except around the Bay of Bengal.




A familiar nursery rhyme that children have recited as a harmless play song for generations ironically refers to one of Europe's most devastating diseases. The bubonic plague, better known as the “The Black Death,” has existed for thousands of years. The first recorded case of the plague was in China in 224 B.C.E. But the most significant outbreak was in Europe in the mid-fourteenth century. Over a five-year period from 1347 to 1352, 25 million people died. One-third to one-half of the European population was wiped out!


The first symptoms of bubonic plague appeared within days after infection: fever, headache, and a general feeling of weakness, followed by aches in the upper leg and groin, a white tongue, rapid pulse, slurred speech, confusion, and fatigue. By the third day, a painful swelling of the lymph glands in the neck, armpits, and groin occurred, and these enlarged areas were called “buboes.” Bleeding under the skin followed, causing purplish blotches. Dark-ringed red spots on the skin from infected fleabites, or “ring around the rosy,” eventually turned black, producing putrid-smelling lesions. The victim's nervous system collapsed, causing extreme pain and bizarre neurological disorders. This was the inspiration for “Dance of Death” rituals. Fragile nasal capillaries led to excessive sneezing. By the fourth day, wild anxiety and terror overtook the sufferer. Finally, a sense of resignation registered as the skin blackened, giving rise to “The Black Death.” The simplistic words in the famous nursery rhyme capture the essence of plague's horror.


The rhyme also describes highly aromatic flowers and herbs, the “pocket full of posies,” that people carried with them and held near their faces to ward off the horrid odor associated with the plague. Many corpses were uncharacteristically cremated—the “ashes, ashes,”—and finally, death would come, and we would “all fall down.”


Plague infects both people and rodents, with rodents helping to transmit it further within the population. Fleas feeding on infected rodents can transmit the disease to people as well. Once infected, people can infect others by coughing, sneezing, or close talking.


The origin of “The Black Death” dates to an outbreak in China during the 1330s. During this period, China was an important trading nation, and international trade via the Silk Road helped create the world's first pandemic. Plague-infected rats on merchant ships spread the disease to western Asia and Europe. In the fall of 1347, Italian merchant ships with crewmembers dying of plague docked in Sicily, and within days the disease spread to the city and the surrounding countryside. The disease killed people so quickly that the Italian novelist Giovanni Boccaccio, whose father and stepmother died of plague, wrote that “its victims ate lunch with their friends and dinner with their ancestors in paradise.” By August, the plague had spread as far north as England.


For five years, the disease would disappear in winter, when fleas were dormant, and resume its killing spree each spring. The impact of the plague was enormous, as governments, trade, and commerce virtually ceased. Faith in religion decreased because many clergy died and prayer failed to prevent sickness and death. Because trade was difficult, the prices of goods were grossly inflated. A decimated work force required higher wages, leading to peasant revolts in England, France, Belgium, and Italy.


The disease receded in 1353, but never really went away. Smaller outbreaks continued for centuries, affecting all of European society, rich and poor. Two hundred years of recurring death immeasurably changed government, the arts, science, and religion.


Plague epidemics ravaged London in 1563, 1593, 1603, 1625, 1636, and 1665, reducing its population by 10 to 30 percent during those years.


The Italian plague of 1630 claimed between 35 and 69 percent of the population. The German plagues between 1709 and 1713 were equally devastating, and in 1720, plague reduced the population of Marseille by 40 percent. The bubonic plague is believed to have killed 137 million people during its 400-year reign of terror.


Solving the Plague Mystery
In 1894, two scientists, Alexandre Emile Jean Yersin and Shibasaburo Kitasato, seperately described organisms they found in the swollen lymph nodes, blood, lungs, liver, and spleen of dead plague patients. To confirm their findings, they used cultures taken from patient specimens to infect a variety of animals. All the animals died within days. The same rod-shaped organisms found in the original specimens were also found in the animal organs.


Life cycle of the Black Plague, as the bubonic plague is sometimes called.
Life cycle of the Black Plague, as the bubonic plague is sometimes called.


On the island of Formosa, residents considered handling dead rats a risk for developing plague. These observations led P. L. Simond in the late 1890s to suspect that fleas might play a role in the transmission of plague. He observed that people contracted plague only if they were in contact with recently dead rats. They were not affected if they touched rats that were dead for more than 24 hours. Simond showed that the rat-flea transmitted the disease. In a now classic experiment, a healthy rat separated from direct contact with a recently killed plague-infected rat, died of plague after the infected fleas jumped from the first rat to the second.


Buboes: Signs of the Plague
Unlike smallpox, the plague is still a threat in some parts of the world. Yersinia pestis, the bacterium that causes bubonic plague, is transmitted through rat-tainted fleabites in densely populated cities and in countries with poor hygiene, or in the open country from infected wild rodents. The most common form of human plague is a swollen and painful lymph gland that forms buboes.


Bubonic plague should be suspected when a person develops a swollen gland, fever, chills, headache, and extreme exhaustion, and lives in a region with infected rodents, rabbits, or fleas. Infection of the lungs causes the pneumonic form of plague, resulting in a severe respiratory illness. This form of the disease can spread rapidly and is more highly fatal.


A person usually becomes ill with bubonic plague two to six days after being infected. When left untreated, the plague-causing bacteria invade the bloodstream and kill 50 to 90 percent of people who get it. Antibiotic therapy effectively treats bubonic plague.


Pneumonic plague is more difficult to treat, and even with antibiotics, victims can die from it. Pneumonic plague occurs when the infectious bacteria infects the lungs. The first signs of illness in pneumonic plague are fever, headache, weakness, and a cough that produces blood or watery sputum. The pneumonia progresses over two to four days and, without early treatment, death ensues.


Can I Catch the Plague?
Bubonic plague is still prevalent in more than 20 countries. In the United States, the last rat-borne epidemic occurred in Los Angeles in 1924-1925. Since then sporadic cases have occurred, mostly in western states. Sources of cases today are wild rodents, especially squirrels, prairie dogs, and other burrowing rodents.


Plague is found in parts of Russia and China and regularly occurs in Madagascar. Severe outbreaks have occurred in recent years in Kenya, Tanzania, Zaire, Mozambique, and Botswana. Plague also has been reported in western and northern Africa. In South America, plague is found in parts of Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, and Brazil. There is no plague in Australia, and Europe has not seen a case for more than 50 years.


Why Is Yersinia So Successful?
A team of scientists recently mapped the entire genetic structure (or genome sequence) of Yersinia pestis, the plague-causing bacterium. The genome displays many irregularities due to genetic exchange with other microorganisms, and many of its genes appear to have been acquired from other bacteria and viruses. The evidence suggests that plague has undergone large-scale genetic change leading to rapid evolution, which makes it able to adapt to survive in many different environments.


Plague Vaccine
Plague vaccines have been used since the late nineteenth century, but their effectiveness is uncertain. Vaccination reduces the incidence and severity of disease resulting from the bite of infected fleas, but it isn't 100 percent effective. The plague vaccine is licensed for use in the United States and is available for adults at high risk—people who live in the western United States, people who will be in parts of the world where plague is still endemic, and people who are around rodents. Severe inflammatory reactions are common, and plague vaccine should not be given to anyone with a known hypersensitivity to beef protein, soya, casein, or phenol. Finally, the vaccination routine is complex and requires frequent boosters to maintain its effectiveness.


Smallpox is one of greatest scourges in human history. This disease, which starts with a distinctive rash that progresses to pus-filled blisters and can result in disfiguration, blindness, and death, first appeared in agricultural settlements in northeastern Africa around 10,000 B.C.E. Egyptian merchants spread it from there to India.


The earliest evidence of smallpox skin lesions has been found on the faces of mummies from the eighteenth and twentieth Egyptian dynasties, and in the well-preserved mummy of Pharaoh Ramses V, who died in 1157 B.C.E. The first recorded smallpox epidemic occurred in 1350 B.C.E., during the Egyptian-Hittite War.


In 430 B.C.E., the second year of the Peloponnesian War, smallpox hit Athens and killed more than 30,000 people, reducing the population by 20 percent. Thucydides, an Athenian aristocrat, provided a terrifying account of the epidemic, describing the dead lying unburied, the temples full of corpses, and the violation of funeral rituals. Thucydides himself had the disease, but he survived and went on to write his historic account of the Peloponnesian War. In this work, he noted that those who survived the disease were later immune to it. He wrote, “the sick and the dying were tended by the pitying care of those who had recovered, because they knew the course of the disease and were themselves free from apprehensions. For no one was ever attacked a second time, or not with a fatal result.” These Athenians had become immune to the plague.


Athens was the only Greek city hit by the epidemic, but Rome and several Egyptian cities were affected. Smallpox then traveled along the trade routes from Carthage.
The patterns of disease transmission often paralleled peoples' travel and migration routes. Disease in Asia and Africa spread to Europe during the Middle Ages. Smallpox was brought to the Americas with the arrival of Spanish colonists in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, and it is widely acknowledged that smallpox infection killed more Aztec and Inca people than the Spanish Conquistadors, helping to destroy those empires.


Smallpox continued to ravage Europe, Asia, and Africa for centuries. In Europe, near the end of the eighteenth century, the disease accounted for nearly 400,000 deaths each year, including five kings. Of those surviving, one-third were blinded. The worldwide death toll was staggering and continued well into the twentieth century, where mortality has been estimated at 300 to 500 million. This number vastly exceeds the combined total of deaths in all world wars.


This person, photographed in Bangladesh, has smallpox lesions on skin of his midsection.
This person, photographed in Bangladesh, has smallpox lesions on skin of his midsection. (Courtesy CDC/James Hicks)


In the United States, more than 100,000 cases of smallpox were recorded in 1921. Strong declines occurred after that because of the widespread use of preventive vaccines. By 1939, fewer than 50 Americans per year died of smallpox.


Variolation: The Earliest Smallpox “Vaccines”
The idea of intentionally inoculating healthy people to protect them against smallpox dates back to China in the sixth century. Chinese physicians ground dried scabs from smallpox victims along with musk and applied the mixture to the noses of healthy people.


In India, healthy people “protected” themselves by sleeping next to smallpox victims or wearing infected peoples' shirts. In Africa and the Near East, matter taken from the smallpox pustules—raised lesions on the skin the contain pus—of mild cases was inoculated through a scratch in an arm or vein. The goal was to cause a mild infection of smallpox and stimulate an immune response that would give the person immunity from the natural infection. This process was called variolation. Unfortunately, the amount of virus used would vary and some would contract smallpox from the inoculation and die. Nonetheless, this preventive approach became popular in China and South East Asia. Knowledge of the treatment spread to India, where European traders first saw it.


Disease Diction
Variolation is the inoculation of matter taken from the smallpox pustules of mild cases through a scratch in an arm or vein. Used by people in the past, the goal was to cause a mild infection of smallpox and stimulate an immune response that would give the person immunity from the natural infection.


An Englishwoman, Lady Mary Wortly Montagu, was responsible for introducing variolation to England. In 1717, while accompanying her husband, the British ambassador to Turkey, in Constantinople she came across the ancient Turk practice of inoculating children with smallpox matter.


Initially horrified at this seemingly savage practice, she learned that a child was protected from the ravages of smallpox through this process. She then had her six-year-old son inoculated while in Turkey, and in 1721, in the presence of Royal Society Members, she had her daughter inoculated. This led to adoption of variolation, mainly by the aristocracy in England and Central Europe. Before long, variolation to prevent smallpox was widespread. During America's War of Independence, George Washington had his army treated in this way. Napoleon did the same with his army before they invaded Egypt.


Edward Jenner: Vaccine Pioneer
During his training as a physician, Edward Jenner learned from nearby milkmaids that after they contracted cowpox they never got smallpox. Cowpox is a far milder disease than smallpox, yet the diseases are quite similar. In 1796, Jenner decided to test the theory that infectious material from a person with a milder similar disease could protect against a more severe disease.


He put some pus from a cowpox pustule on small cuts made on the arm of James Phipps, an eight-year-old boy. Eight days later, Phipps developed cowpox blisters on the scratches. Eight weeks later, Jenner exposed the child to smallpox. The boy had no reaction at all, not even a mild case of smallpox. The cowpox had made him immune to smallpox. Jenner developed the first vaccine, using cow serum containing the cowpox virus. Jenner tried this new treatment on eight more children, including his own son, with the same positive result.






After a period of slow acceptance, Jenner's vaccine approach was widely adopted. Vaccination using Jenner's method was key in decreasing the number of smallpox deaths, and it paved the way for global eradication of the disease.


The World Takes Action
In 1959, The World Health Assembly decided to organize mass immunization campaigns against smallpox. The World Health Organization (WHO) announced the global smallpox eradication program in 1967. At that time there were still an estimated 10 to 15 million cases of smallpox a year resulting in two million deaths, millions disfigured, and another 100,000 blinded. Ten years later, after dispersal of 465 million doses of vaccine in 27 countries, the last reported naturally occurring case appeared in Somalia. On October 22, 1977, a 23-year-old male, Ali Maow Maalin, developed smallpox and survived.






Variola: The Cause of Smallpox
Smallpox is caused by a virus and can result in one of two forms of the disease, called variola major and variola minor. Variola major kills 20 to 40 percent of unvaccinated people who get it and can lead to blindness. Variola minor, a far less lethal form of the disease, results in death only on rare occasions.


Disease Diction
A sixth-century Swiss bishop named the cause of smallpox variola, from the Latin varius, meaning “pimple” or “spot.” In the tenth century, the term poc or pocca was used to describe the scars left behind, which resembled “pouches.” When syphilis became epidemic in the fifteenth century, the term smallpox was adapted to distinguish between the diseases.


The disease is transmitted primarily by direct contact with droplets from saliva and other body fluids that travel through the air, such as through a sneeze. It may also be spread if an uninfected person handles clothing worn by someone with the disease.


Signs and Symptoms of Smallpox
The incubation period for smallpox is 8 to 17 days, with people usually getting sick 10 to 12 days after infection. Symptoms start with malaise, fever, rigors, vomiting, headache, and backache. The trademark smallpox rash appears after two to four days, first on the face and arms and later on the legs, quickly progressing to red spots, called papules and eventually to large blisters, called pustular vesicles, which are more abundant on the arms and face. Although full-blown smallpox is unique and easy to identify, earlier stages of the rash could be mistaken for chickenpox. When fatal, death occurs within the first or second week of the illness.


There is no effective treatment for smallpox. There are antiviral drugs that might work, but they have not been tested due to restrictions on smallpox research.


Smallpox Vaccine
The smallpox vaccine currently licensed in the United States is made with a virus called vaccinia, which is related to smallpox. It does not contain the actual smallpox (variola) virus. Vaccinia causes the body to produce antibodies that protect against smallpox and several other related viruses.


When a person is vaccinated, the usual response is the development of a red spot atthe vaccination site two to five days after the shot. The red spot becomes pustular, and reaches its maximum size in 8 to 10 days. The pustule dries and forms a scab, which separates 14 to 21 days after vaccination, leaving a scar. Sometimes there is also swelling and tenderness of lymph nodes. A fever is common after vaccine. Fatal complications are rare, with less than one death per million vaccinations.


The CDC is the only source of smallpox vaccine and will provide it to protect laboratory and other health-care personnel at risk for exposure. A reformulated vaccine is now under development.


Smallpox: An Agent of Bioterrorism?


Several years ago, Ken Alibek, a former deputy director of the Soviet Union's civilian bioweapons program, indicated that the former Soviet government had developed a program to produce smallpox virus in large quantities and adapt it for use in bombs and intercontinental ballistic missiles.


If a smallpox vaccine exists, smallpox bioterrorism shouldn't be a problem, right? Wrong. The vaccine program in the United States was so successful that routine vaccination was discontinued in 1972. Nearly 50 percent of the population has never been vaccinated and, of the vaccinated individuals, the vaccine is of questionable value since it requires boosting every 10 years. For the first time in nearly a century, the United States population is at significant risk for smallpox.


By international agreement, the main stores of smallpox virus from the Cold War superpowers are kept securely at the CDC's headquarters in Atlanta and at a similar institute in Moscow.


On June 28, 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the throne of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, was assassinated in Sarajevo, starting World War I. Four years and three months later, on November 11, 1918, an armistice was signed in Northern France ending “The Great War.” The death toll was enormous, estimated at 8 to 10 million, but it paled in comparison to the influenza pandemic that also struck in 1918. War, for all its horror and casualties, was actually less deadly than the outbreak of influenza.


In the spring of 1918, soldiers in the trenches in France complained of sore throats, headaches, and general malaise. Most of them recovered quickly, and only a few died. The soldiers called their illness the Spanish Flu although its origins were, and still are, unknown. By summer of that same year, soldiers' symptoms became much worse. One in five who got sick developed pneumonia or blood poisoning. Many died. Others developed a strange condition called heliotrope cyanosis—they literally turned blue! Almost all of them died within a few days. This second wave of the epidemic spread quickly. More than 70,000 American troops on the Western Front were hospitalized, and one-third of them died.


Disease Diction
Influenza is a common, contagious respiratory infection caused by a virus with outbreaks of different forms occurring almost every winter with varying severity. It is characterized by fever, muscle aches, headache, and sore throat.


The virus did not play favorites in the war, and by the end of the summer, the infection had reached Germany, and over 400,000 civilians died there. The first cases in Britain showed up in Glasgow during May 1918, and in a few months' time the virus killed 228,000 Brits. The epidemic swept through the United States in September, and by early December about 20 million people were infected and 450,000 Americans had died. That was not the worst of it. India suffered the largest toll. The first cases appeared in Bombay in June 1918, followed by cases in Karachi and Madras. Many of India's doctors were serving with the British army, so the country was unprepared to deal with the enormity of their problem. In one year, 16 million people in India died.


The 1918-1919 worldwide epidemic, or pandemic, is estimated to have infected 500 million people resulting in nearly 40 million deaths.


The Flu Today
Today, the influenza virus appears virtually every year in a slightly different form and causes respiratory infections. Some years, cases are sporadic and local. In other years there are epidemics that can spread through cities, rural areas, and even whole countries.


Each winter, the flu is the most frequent cause of acute respiratory illness requiring medical care. It is highly contagious, affects all age groups, and has caused epidemics and pandemics of human disease for many centuries. During most flu seasons, up to 20 percent of the population becomes infected, and approximately 1 percent of those infected have to be hospitalized. Close to 20,000 Americans die from complications of the flu each year. In the United States, the flu pandemics of 1957 and 1968 were associated with an attack rate of up to 50 percent and an estimated 100,000 deaths.


Signs and Symptoms of the Flu
The flu virus spreads through the air. It moves from person to person primarily when someone who is infected coughs or sneezes. The incubation period is one to four days, and you can be infectious, or pass the virus to someone else, starting the day before symptoms begin, and lasting through five days after you get sick. The infectious period for children can be longer. Uncomplicated flu in adults and children is characterized by the abrupt onset of the following symptoms:


Antigen Alert
A major new strain of influenza appears approximately every 10 to 15 years, causing a worldwide flu epidemic.


Fever and chills
Headache
Sore throat
Muscle and joint pain
Severe malaise
Dry cough
Runny nose
Fever usually peaks within the first day and lasts up to five days.


The flu usually goes away after several days, although some symptoms, like coughing, can last for more than two weeks. In some people, the flu aggravates underlying medical conditions. The risks for complications, hospitalizations, and deaths from flu are higher among people over age 65, very young children, and people with underlying health conditions. During flu epidemics, deaths can result from pneumonia as well as from heart conditions and other chronic diseases.


A Quick-Change Artist
All viruses have genetic material, either DNA or RNA. Viruses replicate—make copies of themselves by using the machinery of their hosts to copy their DNA or RNA—in order to cause infection. During replication, errors in the sequence of the building blocks that make up DNA and RNA can occur, causing the resulting copies of the virus to be slightly different than their “parents.” If this happens a number of times, the virus changes enough to elude the antibodies that worked to kill it before.


As the flu virus grows and spreads, the replication of individual cells occurs many times, and the errors compound. Eventually, though the virus remains a flu virus, the cumulative effect of many genetic errors results in a new strain. This is similar to taking a word and rearranging the letters one by one. At first it might be nonsense, but eventually you could have a new word.
.


If your body becomes infected with this new strain, it's as though it is meeting the virus for the very first time. The fact that you may have had the flu last year makes absolutely no difference. The antibodies your immune system produced in the past give you little or no protection against another flu virus type or subtype. This is why it is not possible to give a vaccine that gives us long-term immunity to the flu. It is also the reason for seasonal epidemics, and for the incorporation of one or more new strains into each year's flu vaccine.


Controlling the Flu
Each year the flu vaccine in the United States contains three strains representing the flu viruses most likely to circulate in the United States in the upcoming winter. The effectiveness of the vaccine depends on the age and health of the vaccine recipient and the degree of similarity between the viruses in the vaccine and those in circulation. When the vaccine and circulating viruses are similar, the vaccine prevents illness in approximately 70 to 90 percent of healthy people under 65. Among the elderly who live in nursing homes, the flu vaccine is most effective in preventing severe illness, secondary complications, and death.


Vaccinating people at high risk for complications before the flu season each year is the most effective means of reducing the flu's impact. When vaccine and epidemic strains are well matched, vaccination of health-care workers and others in close contact with people in groups at high risk—or among people living in closed settings like nursing homes or other chronic-care facilities—can reduce transmission and subsequent complications.




Smallpox, plague, and influenza are just three examples of epidemics that have struck throughout history. They and other infectious diseases have caused devastation and death all around the globe. Although smallpox has been eradicated, there is still fear about its use as a bioterrorist weapon, and most other infectious diseases are still causing illness despite the implementation of better diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.






10.  Polio
This disease is suspected to have been around for thousands of years. It usually spreads through contaminated food and water, and targets the human nervous system, which causes symptoms that usually affect the legs and lead to paralysis. In the United States, outbreaks peaked in 1952, when 57,628 cases were reported throughout the nation. Though there is no cure for this disease, a vaccine was developed in the 1950s that has proved effective for decades. Since this is a disease only carried by humans, widespread vaccinations are expected to remove any traces of the disease in future generations.






9. Epidemic Typhus/Camp Fever
Caused by tiny microbes carried by bodily lice, this devastating disease spread easily in close, cramped quarters and poverty-stricken cities dating back to the 1600s. Symptoms start out with a headache, nausea, and fever, but when left untreated, lead to heat exhaustion, effects on blood circulation, and other complications leading up to organ failure. This epidemic spread throughout Europe during the Thirty Years War in the 1600s and claimed over 10 million lives, but it regained strength and caused several million deaths in Russia, Poland and Romania during World War I.






8. AIDS
As one of the “youngest” diseases on this list, AIDS spread widely throughout the world in the 1980’s, and since that time it has taken the lives of more than 25 million people. This disease is caused by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) which is contracted and spread through contact with bodily fluids and quickly attacks the immune system. There is still no cure for AIDS, although medications like highly-active anti-retroviral therapy treatments have been used to lessen its symptoms and extend the life of those affected by about 4 to 12 years.


 






7. Malaria
This mosquito-born illness is one of the longest-surviving threats to our livelihood, as records of the disease go back nearly 4,000 years – and cases are still being recorded today. This is especially true in areas like sub-Saharan Africa, where between 350 to 500 million cases of malaria are diagnosed each year, though only a small percentage of them lead to death today. The largest Malaria epidemics spread throughout many different countries in World War I and World War II, killing over 100,000 American soldiers alone.






6. Cholera
This disease was common in India for centuries and moved on to the rest of the world in the 19th century. Most often spread through contaminated water and food, cholera causes flu-like symptoms like vomiting, diarrhea, cramping, and severe dehydration, which ultimately leads to the death of those who cannot keep properly hydrated as their immune system fights the disease. Unfortunately, outbreaks are still occurring today, with an estimated three to five million cases and 120,000 deaths reported each year. The largest and most recent cholera outbreak began in Haiti in 2010. It has already claimed over 7,000 lives and has yet to be eradicated.


 






5. Smallpox
Dating back to the 1500’s, the smallpox epidemic, stemming from the variola virus, has ravaged entire populations. It caused the death of  nearly 90 million Native Americans when the Europeans brought it over to the Americas.  Symptoms include body aches, high fevers, and a serious rash that results from fluid-filled bumps that leave extensive scarring on the skin. The disease killed an estimated 400,000 Europeans per year at the end of the 18th century, even though a vaccine was created in 1796. In spite the vaccine, breakouts of this disease persist, most recently in the late 1960s, when two million people died in countries all over the globe.


 


4. Yellow Fever
This disease is related to malaria in that it spreads from person to person through infected mosquitoes. Responsible for taking millions of lives and wiping out entire colonies and villages during the time of Napoleon’s reign, yellow fever still persists in areas of Africa and South America. While some infections are less severe than others, it is a life-threatening disease that can cause severe internal bleeding and liver failure, which is marked by the yellowing of the skin –  prompting this disease’s name. The most famous Yellow Fever epidemic occurred in 1793 in the Untied States in Philadelphia, PA, when over 4,000 people died in a span of only four moths. Today, the disease still exists, and there are an estimated 200,000 cases of yellow fever, causing 30,000 deaths worldwide each year.






3. The Black Death
Also known as the Bubonic Plague, The Black Death is considered to be the first true pandemic on earth, and it cut populations in half throughout parts of the world like Asia and Europe in the fourteenth century.  Symptoms of Black Death include swollen lymph glands, fever, cough, bloody sputum and difficulty breathing. The underlying cause or epidemic strain is still being debated today, but thanks to developments in medicine, any resurfacing cases can be easily treated in early stages, so the immense loss in population as seen six centuries ago is unlikely.


2. The Great Influenza Epidemic of 1918
There are many names for this one – including The Spanish Flu and the Flu of 1918 – but no matter which one you use, it is widely known as one of the most deadly outbreaks in history. Though it only survived for a year, this strain of virus was responsible for the deaths of 50 to 100 million people, as it was able to quickly spread from country to country as troops and soldiers returned home from WWI from all around the globe. Symptoms were common to those in today’s influenza virus, but excessive fluid buildup in the lungs as a result of the complications from the flu is what ultimately caused the death of millions.


1. Tuberculosis (TB)
Strains of this disease have been traced back to the DNA of ancient Egyptian mummies, revealing that this epidemic has been wreaking havoc on humanity for thousands of years. Caused by a bacteria that spreads through the air, this disease attacks the lungs and causes internal weakness, chest pains, night sweats, and terrible fits of coughing. In the 19th century, tuberculosis killed an estimated one-quarter of the adult population of Europe, and by 1918 one in six deaths in France were still caused by TB. Today, the disease is still around, affecting nearly 8 million people a year  and leading to the death of about 2 million of those infected.




Scientists and medical researchers have for years have differed over the exact definition of a pandemic (is it a pandemic, or an epidemic), but one thing everyone agrees on is that the word describes the widespread occurrence of disease, in excess of what might normally be expected in a geographical region.


Cholera, bubonic plague, smallpox, and influenza are some of the most brutal killers in human history. And outbreaks of these diseases across international borders, are properly defined as pandemic, especially smallpox, which throughout history, has killed between 300-500 million people in its 12,000 year existence.


A final note: The most recent outbreak of the Ebola virus, which has killed thousands of people, is still confined to West Africa. It may someday be pandemic, but for now, is considered an epidemic — and is therefore not included on this list.


HIV/AIDS PANDEMIC (AT ITS PEAK, 2005-2012)
Death Toll: 36 million
Cause: HIV/AIDS
First identified in Democratic Republic of the Congo in 1976, HIV/AIDS has truly proven itself as a global pandemic, killing more than 36 million people since 1981. Currently there are between 31 and 35 million people living with HIV, the vast majority of those are in Sub-Saharan Africa, where 5% of the population is infected, roughly 21 million people. As awareness has grown, new treatments have been developed that make HIV far more manageable, and many of those infected go on to lead productive lives. Between 2005 and 2012 the annual global deaths from HIV/AIDS dropped from 2.2 million to 1.6 million.


FLU PANDEMIC (1968)
Death Toll: 1 million
Cause: Influenza
A category 2 Flu pandemic sometimes referred to as “the Hong Kong Flu,” the 1968 flu pandemic was caused by the H3N2 strain of the Influenza A virus, a genetic offshoot of the H2N2 subtype. From the first reported case on July 13, 1968 in Hong Kong, it took only 17 days before outbreaks of the virus were reported in Singapore and Vietnam, and within three months had spread to The Philippines, India, Australia, Europe, and the United States. While the 1968 pandemic had a comparatively low mortality rate (.5%) it still resulted in the deaths of more than a million people, including 500,000 residents of Hong Kong, approximately 15% of its population at the time.


Check out our guide on the 2017-2018 Flu Season – When Does Flu Season End?
ASIAN FLU (1956-1958)
Death Toll: 2 million
Cause: Influenza
Asian Flu was a pandemic outbreak of Influenza A of the H2N2 subtype, that originated in China in 1956 and lasted until 1958. In its two-year spree, Asian Flu traveled from the Chinese province of Guizhou to Singapore, Hong Kong, and the United States. Estimates for the death toll of the Asian Flu vary depending on the source, but the World Health Organization places the final tally at approximately 2 million deaths, 69,800 of those in the US alone.


FLU PANDEMIC (1918)
Death Toll: 20 -50 million
Cause: Influenza
Between 1918 and 1920 a disturbingly deadly outbreak of influenza tore across the globe, infecting over a third of the world’s population and ending the lives of 20 – 50 million people. Of the 500 million people infected in the 1918 pandemic, the mortality rate was estimated at 10% to 20%, with up to 25 million deaths in the first 25 weeks alone. What separated the 1918 flu pandemic from other influenza outbreaks was the victims; where influenza had always previously only killed juveniles and the elderly or already weakened patients, it had begun striking down hardy and completely healthy young adults, while leaving children and those with weaker immune systems still alive.


SIXTH CHOLERA PANDEMIC (1910-1911)
Death Toll: 800,000+
Cause: Cholera
Like its five previous incarnations, the Sixth Cholera Pandemic originated in India where it killed over 800,000, before spreading to the Middle East, North Africa, Eastern Europe and Russia. The Sixth Cholera Pandemic was also the source of the last American outbreak of Cholera (1910–1911). American health authorities, having learned from the past, quickly sought to isolate the infected, and in the end only 11 deaths occurred in the U.S. By 1923 Cholera cases had been cut down dramatically, although it was still a constant in India.


FLU PANDEMIC (1889-1890)
Death Toll: 1 million
Cause: Influenza
Originally the “Asiatic Flu” or “Russian Flu” as it was called, this strain was thought to be an outbreak of the Influenza A virus subtype H2N2, though recent discoveries have instead found the cause to be the Influenza A virus subtype H3N8. The first cases were observed in May 1889 in three separate and distant locations, Bukhara in Central Asia (Turkestan), Athabasca in northwestern Canada, and Greenland. Rapid population growth of the 19th century, specifically in urban areas, only helped the flu spread, and before long the outbreak had spread across the globe. Though it was the first true epidemic in the era of bacteriology and much was learned from it. In the end, the 1889-1890 Flu Pandemic claimed the lives of over a million individuals.


THIRD CHOLERA PANDEMIC (1852–1860)
Death Toll: 1 million
Cause: Cholera
Generally considered the most deadly of the seven cholera pandemics, the third major outbreak of Cholera in the 19th century lasted from 1852 to 1860. Like the first and second pandemics, the Third Cholera Pandemic originated in India, spreading from the Ganges River Delta before tearing through Asia, Europe, North America and Africa and ending the lives of over a million people. British physician John Snow, while working in a poor area of London, tracked cases of cholera and eventually succeeded in identifying contaminated water as the means of transmission for the disease. Unfortunately the same year as his discovery (1854) went down as the worst year of the pandemic, in which 23,000 people died in Great Britain.


THE BLACK DEATH (1346-1353)
Death Toll: 75 – 200 million
Cause: Bubonic Plague
From 1346 to 1353 an outbreak of the Plague ravaged Europe, Africa, and Asia, with an estimated death toll between 75 and 200 million people. Thought to have originated in Asia, the Plague most likely jumped continents via the fleas living on the rats that so frequently lived aboard merchant ships. Ports being major urban centers at the time, were the perfect breeding ground for the rats and fleas, and thus the insidious bacterium flourished, devastating three continents in its wake.


PLAGUE OF JUSTINIAN (541-542)
Death Toll: 25 million
Cause: Bubonic Plague
Thought to have killed perhaps half the population of Europe, the Plague of Justinian was an outbreak of the bubonic plague that afflicted the Byzantine Empire and Mediterranean port cities, killing up to 25 million people in its year long reign of terror. Generally regarded as the first recorded incident of the Bubonic Plague, the Plague of Justinian left its mark on the world, killing up to a quarter of the population of the Eastern Mediterranean and devastating the city of Constantinople, where at its height it was killing an estimated 5,000 people per day and eventually resulting in the deaths of 40% of the city’s population.


ANTONINE PLAGUE (165 AD)
Death Toll: 5 million
Cause: Unknown
Also known as the Plague of Galen, the Antonine Plague was an ancient pandemic that affected Asia Minor, Egypt, Greece, and Italy and is thought to have been either Smallpox or Measles, though the true cause is still unknown. This unknown disease was brought back to Rome by soldiers returning from Mesopotamia around 165AD; unknowingly, they had spread a disease which would end up killing over 5 million people and decimating the Roman army.










Arsenal centre-back Rob Holding has been ruled out for up to nine months after he ruptured the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee on Wednesday.
The 23-year-old suffered the injury in the Gunners' 2-2 draw against Manchester United at Old Trafford.
Holding had made 16 appearances for Unai Emery's side this season.
"Rob will undergo surgery in the coming days and rehabilitation is expected to take between six to nine months," said an Arsenal statement.
"Everyone at the club will now be working as hard as we can to ensure Rob is back on the pitch as soon as possible."
"Gutted to get injured during a strong period for the team!" said Holding, who also added his thanks to "all the fans, players and staff members for the support during the past couple of days".
Holding underwent tests in London following the collision with United's Marcus Rashford nine minutes before half-time.
The injury is the latest defensive setback for Arsenal, who remain without centre-back Laurent Koscielny and left-back Nacho Monreal.
The Gunners, who are unbeaten in their last 20 matches in all competitions, dropped down to fifth in the table after their 2-2 draw at Old Trafford.
They host Huddersfield in the Premier League on Saturday.


https://www.bbc.com/sport/boxing/46460528


Boxer Adonis Stevenson has suffered a "severe traumatic brain injury" after his knockout by Ukrainian Oleksandr Gvozdyk in Quebec City on Saturday.
Stevenson, 41, boxing's oldest and longest-reigning champion, has had surgery and remains in intensive care, a statement from the hospital said.
Stevenson's promoter Yvon Michel said on Sunday the boxer's condition had "gone from critical to stable".
The hospital said it is too early to comment on his long-term health.
"Mr Stevenson underwent surgery on the night of Saturday to Sunday and has since been hospitalised in the intensive care unit," said Dr Alexis Turgeon, a specialist in intensive care medicine at the Enfant-Jesus Hospital of the CHU de Quebec-Universite Laval.
"He suffers from severe traumatic brain injury. Although critical, his situation remains stable under the circumstances.
"His condition requires mechanical respiratory support, deep sedation and specialized neurological monitoring."
Stevenson suffered an 11th-round knockout on Saturday during the light-heavyweight bout, slumping after a flurry of punches from Gvozdyk.
Unbeaten Gvozdyk, 31, told a news conference on Saturday night: "I talked to the people at the hospital. He was very confused when he arrived, we suspect a concussion. It's very disturbing."
Earlier on Sunday, Michel tweeted his thanks on behalf of Stevenson's wife and family: "Thank you for your many messages of encouragement and support. #Superman is currently under careful medical supervision of very competent doctors in a controlled environment. #hope."
The World Boxing Council tweeted after the fight on Saturday: "The WBC and boxing community from the world join in prayers for the safe recovery of our dear friend, great fighter and exemplary human being @AdonisSuperman."
Stevenson was making his 10th WBC title defence since winning the belt in 2013 by defeating American Chad Dawson and had successfully defended the title against Britain's Tony Bellew.
Gvozdyk, who won an Olympic bronze medal for Ukraine at the London 2012 Games, claimed the belt in his first shot at a major title.


West Ham striker Marko Arnautovic has been ruled out for a month with the hamstring injury he suffered in Tuesday's 3-1 win over Cardiff.
The Austria international will miss the Christmas period, although he could be available for the FA Cup third round tie against Birmingham in January.
The 29-year-old has scored five goals in 13 league appearances this season.
"We know how important Marko is for our team," said West Ham boss Manuel Pellegrini.
"We have too many players injured in a month that we have to play seven games and then in January, six more games.
"But I always have the same answer - we have a squad and it is a chance for another player to demonstrate why they are here."
West Ham take on Crystal Palace at the London Stadium on Saturday.




Sunderland defender Denver Hume could be out of action for up to eight weeks after suffering a reoccurrence of a knee injury.
Hume, 20, has undergone surgery after suffering the initial injury during a 1-1 draw with Coventry in September.
"It's a blow for him, and for me, but it is best that the problem is sorted out," Black Cats boss Jack Ross told the club's website.
Hume has made four appearances in League One so far this season.


St Johnstone winger Drey Wright will miss the rest of the season as he prepares for knee surgery.
The 23-year-old was hurt during the second half of Saturday's 0-0 draw at home to Kilmarnock.
Manager Tommy Wright told the Perth club's website: "A scan has revealed a damaged ACL, which will require an operation.
"There's no doubt that it is hugely disappointing news for the player and the club."
Wright, who was making his 20th appearance of the season at the weekend, moved to McDiarmid Park from Colchester United as a free agent this summer.
"He's made a real impact since joining us and he's a player who has excited the supporters," added Wright.
"But, as is the case in football, we just have to deal with it and help him come back fitter and stronger."
England lock Maro Itoje is set to miss "four to eight weeks" with his knee injury - but is expected to be fit for the start of the Six Nations.
The Saracens player, 24, chipped a bone in his knee on England duty but played all four autumn internationals.
Saracens boss Mark McCall said there were no complaints about the way Itoje was handled by England and confirmed he would not require surgery.
England's first match in the Six Nations is in Ireland on 2 February.
"From what I have been told, 100% he will be fit for the start of the Six Nations," McCall told BBC Radio 5 live following Saracens' 51-25 Champions Cup win over Cardiff Blues.


St Helens academy player Joe Sharratt has been released from hospital to continue recovery from a head injury, his club side have confirmed.
Sharratt, 18, was hospitalised following an assault outside the Factory 251 nightclub in Manchester earlier this month.
The Lancashire Academy centre had a bleed on the brain but has made enough progress to return home.
"Joe will continue to be monitored by Salford Royal," the club tweeted.
"He will continue his treatment at the hospital from Monday. We once again thank you all for your support."


Aberdeen's Gary Mackay-Steven feels "very fortunate" and is "continuing to improve every day" following his Scottish League Cup final concussion.
The winger was knocked out in a clash with Celtic's Dedryck Boyata in Sunday's game, which his side lost 1-0.
Mackay-Steven was taken to hospital but discharged later on Sunday.
"Firstly, a massive thank you to the Aberdeen FC medical team who assisted me on the pitch rapidly and expertly," he wrote in an Instagram post.
"Thank you to the first responders at Hampden Park and every single paramedic, doctor and nurse that seen me [sic[ at the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital.
"Lastly, I would like to thank every single person that has taken the time to send lovely messages and well wishes. I appreciate them all.
"I'm continuing to improve every day but hopefully it won't be long until I can be back out on the pitch."
Meanwhile, forward Connor McLennan, 19, has signed a new contract that will keep him at Pittodrie until 2021.


Notts County will be without winger Enzio Boldewijn for three months as he recovers from a knee operation.
Boldewijn, 26, suffered the injury in Saturday's draw at Morecambe and had surgery to repair the problem.
The former FC Utrecht and Almere wide man, who joined Notts from Crawley in the summer, has scored four goals in 22 games for the Magpies this season.
Notts say Boldewijn will begin his rehabilitation with the club's medical staff following a period of rest.


St Johnstone winger Drey Wright will miss the rest of the season as he prepares for knee surgery.
The 23-year-old was hurt during the second half of Saturday's 0-0 draw at home to Kilmarnock.
Manager Tommy Wright told the Perth club's website: "A scan has revealed a damaged ACL, which will require an operation.
"There's no doubt that it is hugely disappointing news for the player and the club."
Wright, who was making his 20th appearance of the season at the weekend, moved to McDiarmid Park from Colchester United as a free agent this summer.
"He's made a real impact since joining us and he's a player who has excited the supporters," added Wright.
"But, as is the case in football, we just have to deal with it and help him come back fitter and stronger."


England and Arsenal playmaker Jordan Nobbs could miss the rest of the season and is a doubt for next summer's Women's World Cup after rupturing her anterior cruciate ligament.
The Gunners say the 25-year-old is "receiving specialist care" after suffering the injury in Sunday's win at Everton in the Women's Super League.
Nobbs, who has 56 senior international caps, was England's player of 2016.
She has been a key part of the Arsenal side that have a 100% record this term.
The Gunners are top of the WSL table and in-form Nobbs has eight league goals in eight league appearances this season.
The Women's World Cup - at which a fully-fit Nobbs would be expected to start for Phil Neville's Lionesses - begins on 7 June 2019 in France.
An Arsenal statement on Monday said: "Following scans this morning, we can confirm that Jordan has suffered an ACL rupture in her left knee and she is now receiving specialist care.
"Everyone at the club wishes Jordan a speedy recovery and will give their full support in her journey back to full fitness."


The Gunners are top of the WSL table and in-form Nobbs has eight league goals in eight league appearances this season.
The Women's World Cup - at which a fully-fit Nobbs would be expected to start for Phil Neville's Lionesses - begins on 7 June 2019 in France.
An Arsenal statement on Monday said: "Following scans this morning, we can confirm that Jordan has suffered an ACL rupture in her left knee and she is now receiving specialist care.
"Everyone at the club wishes Jordan a speedy recovery and will give their full support in her journey back to full fitness."


Danny Welbeck sustained a "significant" right ankle injury during Thursday's Europa League game against Sporting Lisbon, his club Arsenal have said.
The 27-year-old England international was carried off on a stretcher during the goalless draw at Emirates Stadium.
Welbeck, who was injured when he jumped for a header and landed badly on his right ankle, remains in hospital and will continue to be assessed.
"A further update will be issued over the next 72 hours," said the club.
Several of Welbeck's team-mates appeared distressed as he received lengthy treatment and needed an oxygen mask.
Arsenal manager Unai Emery said: "He was working well and he was having a good match. He had some chances too. His injury was with the mentality of the players."
Welbeck, who has scored 16 times in 42 international appearances, was named in the latest England squad for the upcoming games against the United States and Croatia.
He has five goals from 14 matches for the Gunners this season.


Aston Villa midfielder John McGinn has become the latest player to drop out of the Scotland squad to face Albania and Israel with a calf injury.
The 24-year-old becomes the eighth player to withdraw since Alex McLeish named his squad for the Uefa Nations League double-header.
McGinn, who has 13 caps, has started Scotland's last four games but picked up a knock during training.
Scotland face Albania in Shkoder on Saturday, then host Israel on Tuesday.
Goalkeeper Jon McLaughlin was the first player to drop out of Alex McLeish's squad, with his place being taken by Kilmarnock's Jamie MacDonald.
Celtic goalkeeper Scott Bain, Hamburg centre-half David Bates and two midfielders - Rangers' Ryan Jack and Manchester United's Scott McTominay - were then called into the squad on Sunday.
They replaced Celtic goalkeeper Craig Gordon, Blackburn Rovers defender Charlie Mulgrew, Fulham midfielder Kevin McDonald and Kilmarnock right-back Stephen O'Donnell.
However, Jack subsequently picked up an injury and dropped out, along with Aberdeen centre-half Michael Devlin.
Devlin was replaced with Celtic's Jack Hendry on Wednesday.
I'm always amazed at the amount of people who decide they're going to pull out. When we used to be out with squads, there were people who couldn't wait to meet up because it was an opportunity to represent your country. Your career is going to come to a halt and you want to have maximised how many caps you get.
They might be carrying a knock, might be under pressure from their physio at the club or manager. You play with aches, you play with pain - that's just part of the game. For me, the only reason you'd have pulled out was if you physically couldn't be on the pitch and would be putting your club at risk.


Gweedore and Donegal player Kieran Gillespie is expected to be out of action for around nine months after sustaining a cruciate ligament injury.
Centre half-back Gillespie suffered the tear in the opening moments of Gweedore's Ulster Club win over Cargin on Sunday.
Gillespie, who had hamstring and hip injuries in recent years, had to be stretchered off.
A club statement said the injury had been confirmed as "an ACL tear.
"Kieran will be a big loss to our current campaign and we wish Kieran all the best in his recovery," said the Gweedore club.
First up, Gillespie will miss Gweedore's Ulster Club semi-final against Crossmaglen on 18 November.
The Donegal champions are likely to welcome back Odhran MacNiallais and Odhran McFadden who missed the win over Cargin because of respective broken finger and dead leg injuries.
Gillespie's injury means he will be unavailable for Donegal's Division Two Football League campaign while the timeframe for his recovery means he is also likely to miss all of the county's championship campaign next summer.


Injury has forced Nigeria's first-choice keeper Francis Uzoho to withdraw from the latest Super Eagles squad.
He has been replaced by Enyimba's Theophilus Afelokhai for the Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against South Africa on 17 November.
His Spanish second division club Elche say he will be out for four weeks with a rib injury sustained on Sunday.
It will be the first game Uzoho has missed since making his debut against Argentina last November.
The 20-year-old was one of several youngsters named in the squad by Nigeria coach Gernot Rohr alongside teenagers Victor Osimhen and Samuel Chukwueze.
The pair, who are 19, helped Nigeria win a fifth Under-17 World Cup in 2015.
John Mikel Obi, who captained the team at the 2018 World Cup in Russia, has opted out for personal reasons.
Leicester City's Wilfred Ndidi misses out through suspension after picking up too many yellow cards.
"We give opportunities to our young players like Osimhen and Chukwueze, and also hoping to have our captain Mikel Obi back whenever he is ready to come," coach Gernot Rohr confirmed.
It is a recall to the senior national team for forward Osimhen, who is on loan at Belgian side Sporting Charleroi from Wolfsburg while it is first call-up for Villarreal's Chukwueze.
Injury has ruled out experienced Ogenyi Onazi, but locally-based defender Adeleye Aniyikaye is included for the game against Bafana Bafana in Johannesburg on 17 November.
The Super Eagles then play a friendly against Uganda three days later at the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba.
Nigeria top Group E with nine points from four matches, a point ahead of second-placed South Africa.
The three-time African champions will seal qualification to next year's tournament in Cameroon if they beat South Africa.


Millwall and Wales striker Tom Bradshaw has been ruled out for the rest of the season with a knee ligament injury.
The 26-year-old underwent an operation in London on Tuesday after being hurt late on in the Lions' 2-0 loss at Brentford on 3 November.
Bradshaw, who has won three caps for Wales, moved to The Den on loan from Barnsley in August and will sign a permanent deal in January.
He has yet to score for Millwall in 10 Championship appearances.


South Africa wicketkeeper Trisha Chetty has been ruled out of the Women's World Twenty20 after suffering the recurrence of a back injury.
The experienced 30-year-old has been replaced in the squad by 19-year-old Faye Tunnicliffe, who only made her international debut in September.
However, Tunnicliffe may not arrive in time for their opening game with Sri Lanka in St Lucia on Monday evening.
That may mean opener Lizelle Lee has to take the gloves again.
Although Lee has kept wicket in 15 of her 53 T20 international appearances, her glovework was criticised during this summer's tour of England when specialist keeper Chetty was left out of the squad.
"Trisha has worked extremely hard and had recovered well," said coach Hilton Moreeng. "We know she will be disappointed to miss out and wish her a speedy recovery.
"Faye was here in the West Indies with us on the last tour so she's familiar with the conditions."
The Proteas have already had to make two other changes to their original squad, with Moseline Daniels and Yolani Fourie replacing Saarah Smith and Raisibe Ntozakhe.


England have been dealt a major blow before the Women's World Twenty20 after all-rounder Katherine Brunt was ruled out of the tournament with a back injury.
Brunt, 33, has a recurring back problem which flared up again during a warm-up game against India on Wednesday.
She will be replaced in the England squad by Fran Wilson, a member of the World Cup-winning squad of 2017.
England's first match of the tournament is on Saturday against Sri Lanka.
Wilson is not expected to be available for the opening match.
England lost to India by 11 runs in the warm-up fixture in Guyana, with fast bowler Brunt only able to complete five deliveries because of her back.
Ireland, who begin their campaign against Australia on Sunday, beat Sri Lanka by eight wickets in their warm-up match in Antigua.
England captain Heather Knight defended the decision to take Brunt to the tournament despite her persistent back problem.
"We knew Katherine at 70% makes us a better team, and we were really hopeful we could get her to that point," Knight said.
"It was a little bit of a risk, but we thought it was a risk worth taking. It didn't quite work out how we wanted it to, but Katherine put herself in the best position to get herself on the park and the medical staff as well. For us now it's about moving on and doing it very quickly."
Asked about the void left by Brunt, who made her international debut in 2004, Knight added: "Of course she's a massive part of this side on and off the pitch. On the pitch, obviously she's a brilliant all-rounder - she bats in our top six and bowls the tough overs in T20, so she's hard to replace.
"You almost feel like you need two players to do that. We're bringing Fran Wilson out as a bit of cover but I'm really confident that the girls coming into the side are going to do a good job."


Aberdeen have confirmed the neck injury sustained by Andrew Considine against Rangers is "not as serious as first thought".
Medical staff treated the Dons defender for eight minutes in Sunday's League Cup semi-final victory after a collision during an aerial challenge.
He was taken to hospital and the Pittodrie side went on to win 1-0.
The 31-year-old has now returned to his club but is likely to miss Wednesday's Premiership match with Hamilton.
The Dons are eighth in the league and will face holders Celtic in December's League Cup final.
"We can confirm that the injury sustained by Andrew Considine yesterday was not as serious as first thought," Aberdeen said in a statement.


In the midst of a solid start to their season, the Denver Nuggets (17-8) got a bit of bad news Saturday, as Gary Harris will need 3-4 weeks to rehab his right hip injury, reports ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.
Denver Nuggets guard Gary Harris is expected to need three to four weeks to rehabilitate a right hip injury, league sources told ESPN.
 Harris, who was injured during Monday's game, is averaging 16.6 points per game on 44 percent shooting for the Nuggets this season.


Thunder guard Andre Roberson has had another setback while rehabbing his left knee injury and he will miss at least another six weeks.
The team said Roberson had a basketball workout on Thursday and felt discomfort when he came down from jumping. An MRI showed a small avulsion fracture in his left knee. The Thunder said Friday he will be re-evaluated after the six weeks.
Roberson, an NBA all-defense second-team selection during the 2016-17 season, initially suffered a ruptured patellar tendon in the knee in January and missed the second half of last season. He was on track to possibly return in December, but he had a procedure in October after a setback in the recovery from the initial surgery.
In 39 games last season, the 6-foot-7 Roberson averaged 5.0 points, 4.7 rebounds, 1.2 assists and 1.2 steals.


In the 2018 auction, one of the best bowlers in the world bought by Kolkata Knight Riders, Mitchell Starc for RS 9.4 Crores. Before fourth Test match against South Africa at Johannesburg played from 30th March to 3rd April, Starc was ruled out due to right leg injury.


Mitchell Starc had missed the 2016 and 2017 editions of IPL due to injuries after promising contributions during 2014 and 2015 editions. With Kolkata Knight Riders struggling for top quality bowlers, the Australian pacer would be missed immensely. His replacement in Tom Curran has played 1 match so far and has not performed according to expectations.




Chennai: Suresh Raina will miss Chennai Super Kings' (CSK) next two games in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) after sustaining a calf muscle injury during the match against Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) at the MA Chidambaram stadium on Tuesday.


The news was announced on CSK's website.


The left-hander suffered the injury while taking a single off Sunil Narine's bowling and limped off. He struggled to run subsequently and holed out off Narine's bowling.


The number 1 ranked Test bowler in the world, Kagiso Rabada was retained using right to match card by Delhi Daredevils franchise at price money of Rs 4.2 Crores. The South African young bowler suffered an injury during the 4th Test match against Australia. He was the pick of bowlers for South Africa taking 23 wickets in 4 matches and was named as man of series.


Rabada was ruled out before the IPL 2018 due to a back injury and is expected to be out for 3 months, meaning he misses entire IPL 11 edition. South African fast bowler has been replaced by England pace bowler Liam Plunkett. 


Pat Cummins the promising young bowler from Australia was bought by Mumbai Indians in the auction at RS 5.4 Crores. He produced some fine bowling spells in the 4 match test series against South Africa. Last year, Cummins represented Delhi Daredevils who picked 15 wickets in 12 matches.Australia fast bowler Pat Cummins has been ruled out of the Indian Premier League with a back issue, Cricket Australia has confirmed. 


Cummins had been bought by the Mumbai Indians for $A1.05 million, but missed the opening match of the tournament, a narrow defeat to the Chennai Super Kings.


The 24-year-old has "bone oedema in his vertebrae" – in other words, swelling in the joint, which is not the more serious stress fracture. 


CA's Bupa Support Team Physiotherapist, David Beakley said: "Pat experienced some back soreness during the fourth Test in South Africa. Follow-up scans have confirmed that he has bone oedema in his vertebrae.


"It is important that Pat has time off bowling, to prevent the injury becoming more serious and consequently we have made the decision to rule Pat out of the IPL.


"Pat will now undergo a period of recovery and rehabilitation and we will look to re-scan him in a few weeks to assess the healing.


"Following this we will be in a better position to decide on Pat's return to play timeline including participation in the limited overs tour of the UK."


The 24-year-old has played 13 consecutive Tests for Australia since being parachuted into the team on the India tour a year ago. He has bowled 447.5 overs across all formats since the start of the last Australian summer.




New Zealand young fast bowler Adam Milne replaces Pat Cummins. Milne has featured in 5 matches only for Royal Challengers Bangalore taking just 4 wickets.


Kedar Jadhav the hard-hitting batsman from Maharashtra was bought by Chennai Super Kings in the auction at RS 7.8 Crores. He played in the XI for Chennai Super Kings during the opening match of IPL 2018 against Mumbai Indians. Jadhav got injured and had to leave the field. He was one of the promising youngsters with the ability to support ball, bat and field.


In the 2017 edition of Indian Premier League, Jadhav played for Royal Challengers Bangalore scoring 267 runs in 13 matches with the top score of 69.


After the dismissal of Bravo in the 19th over, he came in the last over and for Chennai Super Kings, hit the winning runs. Kedar Jadhav was ruled out of IPL 2018 due to the hamstring injury. David Willey an all-rounder from England, has been named as his replacement for the rest of tournament who might meet the needs of the franchise. 


The promising young all-rounder from New Zealand Mitchell Santner was bought Chennai Super Kings in the auction for RS 50 Lakhs. He has shown lots of promise for New Zealand national squad with good all-round performances with bat and ball.


Mitchell Santer could not play the Test series against England played in March and will miss 9 months of cricket due to the knee injury. Before the IPL started. Santner was ruled out of IPL. With his contributions with the ball and bat, it is a big blow for Chennai Super Kings.
Afghanistan young spinner Zahir Khan Pakteen was bought by Rajasthan Royals at base price money RS 20 Lakhs. After Rajasthan Royal’s first match, the young left-arm chinaman bowler was ruled out of IPL due to an injury.


Zahir Khan Pakteen featured in 2016 Under 19 World Cup. He was keen to work with Rajasthan Royals coach and widely known spinner Shane Warne. Royals have named Ish Sodhi of New Zealand as his replacement. Being of Indian origin and knowing the conditions better, he may also fulfill the expectations of the franchise. 


Ish Sodhi has the experience of playing in Indian conditions for New Zealand, so he could provide the option of leg spin that can trouble any batsmen.


The Australian fast bowler Nathan Coulter Nile was bought by Royal Challengers Bangalore for Rs 1.50 Crores. Before the Indian Premier League 2018 started, Nathan Coulter Nile was ruled out due to a sustained stress back fracture.


In the 2017 edition, Nathan Coulter Nile played for Kolkata Knight Riders taking 15 wickets from 8 matches. Corey Anderson an all-rounder from New Zealand has replacement Nathan Coulter Nile. Anderson may do better contribution with the bat, ball, and field if given a chance. 


The sensational fast bowler of Under 19 World Cup Indian winning team in 2018, Kamlesh Nagarkoti was bought by Kolkata Knight Riders for Rs 3.20 Crores. He has the ability to show his class with the ball.
Kolkata Knight Riders have played 3 matches in the IPL 2018 edition. Before the 3rd match against Sunrisers Hyderabad on Saturday at Eden Garden’s, the Under 19 bowler Kamlesh Nagarkoti was ruled out of IPL due to the foot injury and will miss the entire season. It is a big lost opportunity for him to feature in the playing XI. 
Nagarkoti was impressive in Under 19 World Cup 2018, picking up 9 wickets from 6 matches and helped Men in Blue win 4th Under 19 title.
The Australian young bowler Jason Behrendroff was bought by Mumbai Indians in the auction for Rs 1.5 Crores. He has been a consistent performer for Perth Scorchers in Big Bash League tournament taking 45 wickets in 32 matches. He performed very well in the 2nd game at Guwahati taking 4 wickets and helped Australia win the match that was held in October 2017.


He did not even land in India as he was ruled out of the tournament due to an injury. His ability to deceive the batsmen with his swing would have been useful for Mumbai Indians. Mumbai Indians may not miss him because of presence Bumrah and Mustafizur Rahman of Bangladesh. New Zealand fast bowler, Mitchell McClenaghan was announced as his replacement, who has played for Mumbai Indians in the previous seasons 


Mitchell McClenaghan took 16 wickets from 14 matches in IPL 10 and was instrumental in helping Mumbai Indians winning their 3rd title.


he India allrounder missed Sunrisers' first seven games while recovering from an ankle injury picked up during the World T20. He played his first match on May 6


ASHISH NEHRA
Team: Sunrisers Hyderabad
Status: Ruled out of the IPL with two league games left to play, having injured a hamstring during Sunrisers' game against Kings XI Punjab on May 15


KANE WILLIAMSON
Team: Sunrisers Hyderabad
Status: The New Zealand batsman missed Sunrisers' first six games with a hamstring injury, before returning to action against Royal Challengers Bangalore on April 30


JOEL PARIS
Team: Delhi Daredevils
Status: The Australian fast bowler was ruled out with a shin injury before the tournament began


JP DUMINY
Team: Delhi Daredevils
Status: Missed Daredevils' first match as he recovered from a hamstring strain suffered during the World T20, returned for four games, then was not fit again for their match against Kolkata Knight Riders on April 30. He was back in action on May 3


SAMUEL BADREE
Team: Royal Challengers Bangalore
Status: The West Indies legspinner is out of the tournament without having played a match, courtesy a shoulder injury picked up during the World T20 final


ADAM MILNE
Team: Royal Challengers Bangalore
Status: Another fast-bowling blow for the team, with the New Zealand pacer heading home with a torn hamstring in his right leg after playing just one game



LASITH MALINGA
Team:Mumbai Indians
Status: Out of the tournament without making an appearance. He is yet to fully recover from the knee injury that has kept him out of top-flight cricket since February


KEVIN PIETERSEN
Team: Rising Pune Supergiants
Status: The first of a string of injuries for Pune, Pietersen pulled a calf while batting against RCB and that was the end of his tournament. He turned out for Pune in four games


LENDL SIMMONS
Team: Mumbai Indians
Status: The opener was ruled out of the tournament after just one match due to lower-back trouble


FAF DU PLESSIS
Team: Rising Pune Supergiants
Status: A broken finger put South Africa batsman Faf du Plessis out of action for six weeks on April 28, ending his IPL season after only six matches


MITCHELL MARSH
Team: Rising Pune Supergiants
Status: The third Rising Pune Supergiants player to be ruled out in the same week. He exited with a side strain, after playing three games


STEVEN SMITH
Team: Rising Pune Supergiants
Possibly the biggest blow so far to a struggling Pune side, Australia's captain headed home with a wrist issue a few days after striking his first T20 ton


M ASHWIN
Team: Rising Pune Supergiants
Status: The last of Supergiants' injuries, before they were dumped out without making it to the playoffs: legspinner M Ashwin, who played 10 games in the season, was ruled out with a side strain




SHAUN MARSH
Team: Kings XI Punjab
Status: A day after his brother was ruled out of Pune's campaign, Shaun Marsh had similar bad news at Kings XI. He was ruled out after picking up a back injury
        
GLENN MAXWELL
Team: Kings XI Punjab
Status: After struggling with injury (and patchy form) over the IPL season, Maxwell left for Australia to get treatment for an apparent side strain, thereby missing Kings XI's last two games




JOHN HASTINGS
Team: Kolkata Knight Riders
Status: The Australian fast bowler had to fly home after injuring an ankle during KKR's warm-ups ahead of their game against Mumbai Indians on April 13, just their second of the tournament




MEXICO CITY — President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico created a truth commission on Monday to re-examine the case of 43 students whose disappearance in 2014, still unsolved after a disputed investigation, has come to represent the tens of thousands of Mexicans who have vanished in more than a decade of the drug war.
Just two days after taking over as Mexico’s leader, Mr. López Obrador set a new tone for the government, pledging to deliver justice to victims of violence and corruption.
“I assure you there won’t be impunity in this sad and painful case,” said Mr. López Obrador, flanked by two of the missing students’ parents. The students’ relatives, many from rural communities in Mexico’s poorest states, sat in the front row of the president’s first public event at the National Palace, holding large images of their missing sons.
Alejandro Encinas, the incoming deputy interior minister for human rights, will head the commission. It will start a new investigation under a special prosecutor’s office and will aim to consider all leads, including those that were ignored or discarded by the former government.
The students, who were studying to be rural teachers, disappeared in September 2014 from the southern city of Iguala, after the municipal police attacked the buses they were riding. The government of former President Enrique Peña Nieto said that the students were then handed over to a local drug gang, which killed them and burned their bodies in a nearby garbage dump. The remains of only one student have been identified.
The case soon became a symbol of widespread disappearances, violence and corruption in Mexico — and the impunity with which such crimes were carried out.
The commission will include the students’ relatives and their advocates, as well as government officials. As part of their mandate, its members will consider the recommendations issued by international experts from the United Nations and the Inter-American Commission of Human Rights. Experts appointed by the commission reviewed the case in 2015 and rejected the official account of events.
The government, granting one of the main demands of victims’ advocates, will invite members of both international organizations to help supervise the new efforts.
Only last week, the National Human Rights Commission, an autonomous government agency, published a report that sharply criticized the former government’s handling of the case, citing a list of irregularities and failures, including signs that key witnesses had been tortured.
Editors’ Picks
With U.S. Soil Achingly Close, Decision Time for Caravan Migrants
Lean In’s Sheryl Sandberg Problem
‘Clueless’ Was Amy Heckerling’s Masterpiece. Is She Done With It? As If.
Mr. López Obrador, who took office on Saturday, won a landslide election five months ago on a wave of anger about rampant violence and corruption, and fulfilled a campaign promise to create the commission with his first public decree.
The students’ relatives have led street protests and rallies for four years to condemn what they called the mishandling of the case, which they said deprived them of the truth and justice.
They have demanded a transparent and effective inquiry that follows the leads that contradicted the official account.
“We ask you, as a father, to help us, to pull us out of this dumpster where Peña Nieto left us, and for you to gain the trust of all Mexicans, because we don’t trust anyone anymore,” said María Martínez, the mother of one of the missing students, referring to the former president. The flawed investigation prompted a national outcry, and Mr. Peña Nieto’s approval ratings plummeted.
In a detailed investigation of the case, experts from the Inter-American Commission of Human Rights said there was no physical evidence to sustain the former government’s account. After they announced their preliminary conclusions, members of the panel said they were subjected to a campaign of harassment and interference.
Evidence later emerged showing that some of the lawyers, journalists and activists looking into the case were targeted with surveillance technology bought by the Mexican government.
The creation of the new commission was first ordered by a federal court in Mexico this summer, in response to legal motions filed by suspects in the abduction who accused the government of using torture to force confessions. The experts who first reported suspicions of torture warned that such violations could undermine the legality of the entire investigation.
Mr. Peña Nieto had refused the court’s order, saying it had no authority over the matter. His government’s position on the case infuriated relatives of the missing, and drew outrage from others whose families had suffered similar violence.
“We ask the rest of the country to put themselves in our shoes for just one day, for them to feel what it is to have a loved one missing,” Ms. Martínez said. “It’s not only our 43, there are thousands of other families suffering.”


https://www.deseretnews.com/article/900028388/3-kidnapped-utah-teen-and-demanded-ransom-from-parents-police-say.html


Three Arizona residents were charged Thursday with kidnapping a teenage boy this week and holding him hostage while demanding a ransom from his mother for his safe return.
At one point, the trio was told to kill the boy, but his kidnappers opted to hold out for the money, charging documents state.
Juan Carlos Moreno Trinidad, 41, Issa Al-Sadoon, 26, and Nadia Avalos, 31, all of Phoenix, were arrested Tuesday by West Valley police. They were each changed in 3rd District Court Thursday with aggravated kidnapping, a first-degree felony; and theft by extortion, a second-degree felony.
A 17-year-old was "forcefully" taken and held hostage in a hotel room where his kidnappers demanded money for his return, "all while indicating (through the victim’s phone calls) that they would kill or do bodily harm to the victim if their demands were not met," according to Salt Lake County Jail reports.
When police later rescued the boy, he told them "that he had been taken at gunpoint, and he believed if he did not go with them his mother would likely be hurt. The victim gave information that he was told to make the phone calls to his mother for the ransom demands," the reports state.
The boy's mother was told "she needed to pay $5,000 if she wanted to see him alive," according to charging documents. The trio called from two different numbers and sent her a video message showing her son in the back of a truck, investigators say.
West Valley police spokeswoman Roxeanne Vainuku said the boy was taken from the area of 3500 S. Redwood. She said the Utah County Major Crimes Task Force was working on an unrelated investigation when it learned about the kidnapping. That's when both West Valley police and the FBI became involved in the case.
With the help of surveillance video from businesses in the area of the kidnapping, detectives were able to track down the teenager and the kidnappers, Vainuku said.
One of the defendant's phones was pinged to a park-and-ride lot off I-15 near 7200 South, the charges state. Police found the abandoned truck there. Zip ties and duct tape were also found in the vehicle. Surveillance video shows the three take the teen into another car, according to the charges.
Another phone ping led investigators to Motel 6, 315 W. 3300 South, where they surrounded the hotel and arrested one of the men when he left the room to go to his car, Vainuku said. Inside the vehicle investigators found a gun and a "large knife."
Contact was then made with the remaining two people inside the room who were talked into surrendering, according to Vainuku.
She said from the time her department was notified until the teen was recovered was about eight hours.
Investigators believe the alleged kidnapping was drug-related and that the teen was not chosen at random.
The three drove to Utah from Arizona on Aug. 10 to look for the boy's mother to collect a drug debt, according to the charges. Three days later, they went to the store where the woman worked and spotted her son. They had the boy take his mother's truck and kidnapped him at gunpoint, according to court records.
Two of the suspects called their "boss" who told them to kill the boy and take the truck, the charges state. Trinadad wanted to kill the teen but Al-Sadoon wanted the money, so they kidnapped him instead, investigators wrote.
The three allegedly told the boy that if he came up with $2,000 they would let him go. When he told them he didn't have the money, the men told the boy "that he needed to hide" from his mother for a few days "so that they could leave the state" and get his mother to pay the ransom, according to the charges.
Details about the possible connection between the three suspects and the boy and his family were not revealed. According to the reports, at least one of the alleged captors "admitted to being addicted to heroin and said he was going through withdrawals."
Inside the hotel room, "a second loaded firearm, several phones and a small amount of a crystal-like substance that field-tested positive for methamphetamine were located," the reports state.


https://www.cnn.com/2018/05/24/africa/south-africa-bitcoin-ransom-boy-found/index.html


The South African teenager who was kidnapped by unknown men demanding a $120,000 ransom in bitcoins has been found alive, police say.
Katlego Marite, 13, was taken by three men in a car as he played with two friends near his home in the eastern province of Mpumalanga on Sunday.
Police spokesman Brigadier Leonard Hlathi confirmed to CNN that Marite had been found but declined to comment further on the circumstances.
"The combined efforts by the police and the community paid off when Marite was found safe and sound. The circumstances under which he was found are a subject of investigation," Hlathi said.
The police spokesman also declined to comment on whether the bitcoin ransom demanded by the kidnappers was paid.
The men had demanded 15 bitcoins, which is roughly equivalent to $120,000 in cash.
In the ransom note, the kidnappers asked the boy's parents to pay "One bitcoin by May 21 and the full amount by May 27." The boy's family told police they didn't know what bitcoins were.
Bitcoin is a new currency that is not tied to any country or subject to regulation. Bitcoins are traded on exchanges and stored in virtual bank accounts called digital wallets.
The ransom note also included information about a wallet to which to send the payment.
In December, kidnappers in Ukraine received a ransom worth more than one million in bitcoins for releasing their victim -- an employee of a British cryptocurrency exchange, according to a report from Reuters news agency.




The emotional service occurred hours after a man in detention on unrelated charges was accused of killing Hania, who was abducted last month outside her home in southeastern North Carolina.
The eighth-grader was kidnapped from her driveway on November 5 in Lumberton, about 95 miles from Raleigh. The abductor forced her into a relative's idling SUV and drove off, prompting an Amber Alert.
Michael Ray McLellan is charged in Hania Aguilar&#39;s kidnapping and death.
Michael Ray McLellan is charged in Hania Aguilar's kidnapping and death.
Hania's body was found last week in water off a rural road in Robeson County, while the stolen SUV was abandoned less than 10 miles from the home, authorities said.
Michael Ray McLellan, 34, has been charged with 10 felonies, including first-degree murder and statutory rape of a person under age 15, Shelley Lynch, public information for the FBI's Charlotte office, said in a statement.
Already in custody on unrelated charges, McLellan went before a state magistrate at the Robeson County Detention Center early Saturday. He's being held there without bond.
McLellan's first court appearance is expected Monday morning. He was in custody for an attempted kidnapping in October -- a case for which he turned himself into police eight days after Aguilar was kidnapped, CNN affiliate WSOC reported.
Father denied a visa to attend funeral
At the funeral, school officials, classmates and friends celebrated Hania's life with song, poetry and letters
SaVon Maultsby, the middle school's principal, recalled Hania's loving smile.
"When I look at all the outpouring of love and support for Hania every day, I am reminded that her life's journey is really about the people who she has touched," she said.
Classmates remembered Hania's perfect attendance in the fourth grade, and her interests in music, science and soccer. She dreamed of becoming an architect and liked to bakes cookies and pastries, they said.
"There aren't any magic words that will heal the hurt that our school community feels," Maultsby said.
Hania's father was not able to attend his daughter's funeral.
The US State Department denied a temporary visa for Noé Aguilar to travel from Guatemala to attend services for her, according to the father's attorney.
Hania&#39;s body was found last week off a rural road in Robeson County.
Hania's body was found last week off a rural road in Robeson County.
"I had hoped they would find it in their hearts to let me be there for my daughter's funeral," Aguilar told CNN in a brief phone interview Friday.
"It's very sad. She was my princess. She will always be my princess."
Immigration attorney Naimeh Salem said US Embassy officials in Guatemala denied the temporary visa on the grounds that Aguilar "didn't have enough ties to his home country, Guatemala."
"That is not true," she said. "He has family there and his own business."


A 6-year-old boy in Missouri endured an emotional four-hour staged kidnapping because his family thought he was being too nice to people he didn't know, police said Thursday.
The four people involved in the alleged plot -- the boy's mother, grandmother, aunt and a co-worker of the aunt -- have been charged with kidnapping and other felonies, the Lincoln County Sheriff's Office said.
 Elizabeth Hupp, the boy&#39;s mother. 

Elizabeth Hupp, the boy's mother.
"Family members told investigators their primary intent was to educate the victim and felt they did nothing wrong," the press release said.
During his reported ordeal the boy was lured Monday into a pickup after getting off his school bus, tied up, threatened with a gun, taken to a basement where his pants were removed, and told he could be sold into sex slavery, police said.
 Denise Kroutil, the boy&#39;s aunt. 

Denise Kroutil, the boy's aunt.
The boy was told in the truck by Nathan Wynn Firoved, the aunt's co-worker, that he would never "see his mommy again," and he would be "nailed to the wall of a shed," the sheriff's statement said.
The boy started to cry, police said, and Firoved, 23, showed the child a gun and said he would be harmed if he didn't stop bawling. Firoved used plastic bags to tie the child's hands and feet, police said. He took his jacket and covered the boy's head so he couldn't see.
He guided the boy, still unable to see, into the basement of the mother's home, where his 38-year-old aunt took off the boy's pants, according to the sheriff's statement.
"The victim remained in the basement for some time before he was unbound and told to go upstairs, where the victim's family lectured him about stranger danger," the statement said.
The suspects kept each other updated throughout the incident on cell phones, police said.
The boy's 25-year-old mother, Elizabeth Hupp of Troy, is charged with felony kidnapping and felony abuse and neglect of a child. The 58-year-old grandmother, Rose Brewer; the aunt, Denise Kroutil; and Firoved are also charged with felonious restraint.
The sheriff said Kroutil approached Firoved to kidnap her nephew to "scare" him because he was "too nice" to people. The statement alleges the mother and grandmother both agreed the boy should be kidnapped to teach him a lesson.
The boy was placed into protective custody after he told school officials Wednesday what had happened to him.
CNN has been trying to track down lawyers for the accused, but has been unable to locate information on the attorneys.
Troy is about an hour northwest of St. Louis.




Two children who were among dozens kidnapped by gunmen from their boarding school in Cameroon Monday are still missing, the school's moderator told CNN, updating an earlier statement that all 78 students had been freed.
Rev. Fonki Samuel Forba, the moderator of the Presbyterian Church in Cameroon, told CNN that authorities realized the two children were missing after the other children underwent interviews and medical checks.
"When we handed the children to their parents this evening, we learned two students are still with the kidnappers, and the principal and one teacher," Forba said. On Tuesday, Forba said all 78 children had been freed.
Forba said the kidnappers had asked the students to tell if them if their parents had high-ranking government positions. "These two raised their hands. So they kept them," he said.
79 students kidnapped from boarding school in Cameroon, official says
The group of 42 girls and 36 boys was seized early Monday by gunmen, along with their principal, a teacher and a driver, from the Presbyterian Secondary School in Bamenda, in the northwest of the central African nation. One other girl managed to escape from the kidnappers.
The students were returned to the school with their driver at 9:30 p.m. (4:30 p.m. ET) on Tuesday, teacher Vumesegah Peter Kogah said. A military truck then took them to the governor's office.
Security officers who visited the school after the kidnapping took away the vice principal and another member of staff for interrogation, Forba said.
"They have not yet been released," he said, adding, "I don't know why they are keeping them."
Vying sides trade blame
No one has claimed responsibility for the abductions, though vying sides have traded blame.
The kidnappers are "nothing other than the secessionists," army spokesman Didier Badjeck said, referring to Anglophone separatist fighters calling for independence from Cameroon's largely Francophone government.
At least two separatist groups, the Ambazonia Defense Forces and the Ambazonia Governing Council, have denied involvement in the kidnapping and suggested that the government had a hand in it.
Government forces took the students as a "mass distraction tactic" to divert attention from President Paul Biya's inauguration Tuesday, Ambazonia Defense Forces spokesman Tapang Ivo Tanku said in a Facebook post.
Badjeck countered that the country's defense and security forces helped the rescue operation, noting that regional authorities suspended the movement of non-emergency vehicles as military police and helicopters joined the hunt.
Separatist tensions date to post-colonial era
Anglophone separatist fighters have been accused of kidnapping students in the country's north and southwest regions.
Seven students and a head teacher were kidnapped in September by armed separatists from their school in the town of Bafut, in the northwest of the country, Amnesty International said in a report.


Jaycee Lee Dugard was abducted in 1991, when she was just 11 years old, and held in captivity by Phillip Garrido for over 18 years.
Dugard was walking to her school bus stop at the time of the kidnapping. Garrido stopped his car, and used a stun gun to capture her. While in captivity, Dugard was forced to shower with Garrido, and was repeatedly raped. She first became pregnant at age 13, and her second daughter was born three years later.
In 2009, Garrido raised suspicions after an events manager at UC Berkeley noticed that his daughters looked pale at a meeting. Officers were notified and after an investigation of Garrido's home, he was arrested. Dugard was finally freed.


Elizabeth Smart was kidnapped at knife point back in 2002. She was held by Brian David Mitchell, and his wife, Wanda Barzee, for nine months before she was recovered.
Brian David Mitchell broke into the Smart home and kidnapped 14-year-old Smart while her sister pretended to sleep in the same room. After Mitchell brought Smart to his camp, he repeatedly raped her, often multiple times a day.
Nine months after the abduction, a biker called police when he saw Mitchell, Barzee, and Smart traveling together because it looked suspicious. Officers recognized Smart, and Mitchell and Barzee were arrested for kidnapping.


In 1996, Amber Hagerman was kidnapped while riding her bike in a parking lot. She was later killed by her captor, who has never been identified. Her case was the inspiration for the Amber Alert notification system.
A neighbor witnessed the kidnapping of nine year old Hagerman and called the police. The girl's mother, father, and neighbors started looking for Amber, but sadly, a dog walker found her body four days after her abduction. The crime remains unsolved to this day.


Adam Walsh was kidnapped at a department store in 1981. Two weeks later, his head was found by a fisherman, but his body was never recovered. The murder was unsolved for many years, but Ottis Toole was later declared responsible for the crime. Walsh's father, John Walsh, went on to host the show, America's Most Wanted.


Toole was suspected of the crime for many years, but a changing story and retracted confessions slowed down progress in the case. At one point, people thought that Jeffery Dahmer may have been the culprit, but that was later discounted. The case was finally closed in 2008, with Toole held accountable for the crime.


Michael Anthony Hughes has been missing since 1994. He was abducted by Franklin Delano Floyd while he was attending school. Hughes has never been seen since, but Floyd was arrested for his kidnapping and sentenced to 55 years in prison.
The freakiest part about this case is that Sharon Marshall, Hughes's mother, was married to Floyd. Floyd actually kidnapped Marshall when she was a little girl, raised her as his daughter, and married her later in life. Sharon Marshall's real name was Suzanne Marie Sevakis. Floyd took her and her sister and brother from their home when she was a young child, and began sexually abusing her.
Her brother was never seen again. Marshall/Sevakis was found dead in a suspicious hit-and-run accident in April 1990. Floyd was listed as a suspect, but never charged with her murder.
The investigation of Michael Hughes's murder is still on-going, as there are mixed testimonies associated with his disappearance. Some say that Floyd confessed to drowning Hughes in a motel bathroom in Georgia, while others say they saw Floyd bury a body in the cemetary. Floyd himself has not made any formal confessions.
Floyd is currently on death row for murdering another woman.


Jessica Lunsford was abducted from her home in 2005. Her body was found one month later behind a house where John Evander Couey was staying. Couey was later found guilty of kidnapping, murder, burglary, and sexual assault.
Couey provided investigators with a detailed confession. He raped Lunsford, and then told her to climb into a black garbage bag so that he could take her home. Instead of returning her to her parents, he buried her alive. Couey was sentenced to death for his crimes, but died of colon cancer in 2009.


Charles Augustus Lindbergh, Jr., son of famed pilot Charles Lindbergh, was kidnapped from his bed in 1932. A ransom note was left at the scene requesting $50,000. After a 72-day search, the baby's body was found in the woods. In 1934, police arrested Bruno Richard Hauptmann for the kidnapping and murder of the child.
Investigators suspect that Lindbergh, Jr.'s cause of death was due to a massive skull fracture. Hauptmann was found guilty and sentenced to death. He was electrocuted to death in 1936.


The 1960 kidnapping and murder of Graeme Thorne was the first of its kind in Australian history. The culprits were trying to blackmail the child's father for a recent lottery win.
Eight year old, Thorne was taken as he waited for his ride to school. His body was found in a rug. Police suspect that he died from asphyxiation and/or a head wound. Forensic evidence was used to track down his murderer, Stephen Bradley, who died in prison in 1968.


Patty Hearst was kidnapped for 19 months by the Symbionese Liberation Army in 1974. The SLA was asking for two of their members to be freed from jail, and when that wasn't accomplished, they demanded that food be given to every needy Californian.
Later claiming a case of "Stockholm Syndrom," Hearst joined the SLA in criminal behavior before the FBI recovered her. Hearst was convicted of bank robbery, but she served a shortened sentence and was released in 1979.


In 1996, 12-year-old Sabine Dardenne was kidnapped by Marc Dutroux and held captive for 80 days in a cellar. She was snatched while riding her bike to school. Another girl, Laetitia Delhez, was also kidnapped in order to give Dardenne a friend.

A witness wrote down the registration number of Dutroux's car during the abduction, and Belgian police eventually tracked Dutroux down and arrested him. Dutroux admitted to kidnapping and raping both girls. Five bodies of his previous victims were found buried in the cellar.


John Paul Getty III was kidnapped by Italian gangsters when he was just 16 years old. $17 million was demanded for his safe return. His grandfather, Mr. Getty Sr., refused to pay the ransom, and three months later, his abductors cut off his ear.

A ransom of $3 million was eventually paid, and Getty III was released. Though nine men were arrested, only two were convicted of the crime. Getty III later had an operation to rebuild his ear.


Natascha Kampusch was held in captivity for 3,096 days by Wolfgang Priklopil, who repeatedly raped her during that time. She escaped in 2006, and Priklopil's body was later found lying on train tracks in an apparent suicide.

10 years old at the time of her kidnapping, Kampusch was dragged into a mini-van by Priklopil. For eight years she was held in a tiny cellar and badly beaten in order to further prevent her escape.

Priklopil sometimes let Kampusch out of the cellar to do chores. On the morning of Aug. 23, 2006 she was vacuuming his car when he suddenly got a phone call and had to step away. Kampusch ran to a neighbor's house and explained that she had been kidnapped and held against her will. She was returned safely to her family.


In 2002, 11-year old Shawn Hornbeck was kidnapped while riding his bike. Michael John Devlin ran into Hornbeck with his car, causing him to crash. Feigning concern, Devlin went over to "help" Hornbeck, and shoved him into his vehicle. He later told Hornbeck that he was just "in the wrong place at the wrong time."

Hornbeck lived with Devlin for four years. He had a girlfriend, often went to the local shopping mall, and even spoke to police officers once about a missing bike. No one recognized him, and Hornbeck had been brainwashed to believe that Devlin would harm or kill him if he revealed his whereabouts.

When Devlin kidnapped Ben Ownby, police tracked him back to his home, where they found Hornbeck. Hornbeck was reunited with his parents. According to a followup interview conducted in 2013, he now has a full time job and lives with his family. 

Devlin is currently serving three life sentences in prison for kidnapping and child sexual abuse in the cases of Hornbeck and Ownby. In 2011, Devlin was stabbed multiple times by another inmate who was disgusted and angered by Devlin's crimes.


Elisabeth Fritzl was kidnapped and raped by her father Josef Fritzl from 1984 - 1993. Fritzl gave birth to seven children during her captivity. Three of the children were brought upstairs to live with the rest of the family, while the other four were held captive with Fritzl.

After the eldest daughter fell ill, Josef Fritzl took the girl to the hospital where her illness and his explanation raised suspicions. Elisabeth was allowed to go to the hospital, and eventually shared her entire story with police. Firtzl later confessed to his crimes, and was sentenced to life in prison.


Michelle Knight, Amanda Berry, and Gina DeJesus were held captive by Ariel Castro for many years.

Knight was kidnapped first in 2002. She disappeared after leaving her cousin's house. It was believed by many that she had run away after losing a child custody battle to the state. Castro starved and beat Knight frequently, and even killed her pet dog. He also induced impregnated Knight several times, but forced her repeatedly to miscarry by beating and violently raping her.

Berry disappeared the day before her 17th birthday in 2003. She accepted a ride home from Castro on her way home from her job at Burger King, but he abducted her and took her back to his place. Castro impregnated Berry and told her that if the baby died at any point, he would kill her. He forced her to give birth in a shallow inflatable swimming pool in the living room with Knight's assistance.

DeJesus was kidnapped on her way home from school in 2004 at age 14. She was actually friends with Arlene Castro, and was last seen at a payphone asking Arlene's mother if they could have a sleepover that night. The girls parted ways, and DeJesus was snatched by Castro. 

Berry was finally able to escape by signaling neighbors for help one day when Castro was out of the house. She and her child ran, and the authorities freed Knight and DeJesus shortly thereafter. Castro was sentenced to life in prison plus 1,000 years.

One month into his life sentence, Castro was found dead in his cell, hanging from a bedsheet. It is believed that he committed suicide.


Jakob von Metzler was found dead in 2002 after being kidnapped by his tutor, Magnus Gäfgen. His parents paid 1 million Euros in ransom, but never saw their son alive again.

Police did not immediately arrest prime suspect Gäfgen, hoping he would lead them to von Metzler's. When he didn't, police apprehended Gäfgen and threatened him with torture if he did not tell them where to find the boy, whom he had already killed.

The threat of torture during Gäfgen's interrogation raised serious questions about police tactics.


Suzanne Marie Sevakig was kidnapped by her step-father along with her two sisters and one brother. Her brother was never found. Suzanne is believed to have been killed by her capture, Franklin Delano Floyd – to whom she was previously married, later in a hit-and-run.

Floyd also kidnapped and is suspected to have murdered Suzanne's son, Michael.


Six year old Etan Patz vanished in 1979 on his way to his school bus stop. Pedro Hernandez was later charged with the child's murder, but the trial ended with a hung jury.

Not much is known about what actually happened to Patz, but his case was significant in creating new legislation to help find missing children. Patz was the first missing child whose photo appeared on milk cartons.


In 1963, Frank Sinatra, Jr. was kidnapped by Barry Keenan and Joe Amsler. They demanded $240,000 in ransom from his father. The ransom was paid, Sinatra Jr. was released and his captors were quickly arrested. Most of the ransom money was recovered.

Keenan and Amsler were reportedly considering kidnapping the sons of Bob Hope and Bing Crosby before landing on Sinatra. They had to postpone their original plans due to the assassination of John F. Kennedy.


Kala Brown and her fiancé, Charlie Carver, disappeared in August of 2016. Odd Facebook updates appeared on her page after her disappearance, claiming that the two had gotten married and did not want to be found. However, Brown had actually been kidnapped by her boss - Todd Kohlhepp - and her fiancé had been murdered and buried on Kohlhepp's property. Kohlhepp alternately kept Brown chained up in a metal shipping container and in a small, barren apartment on his multi-acre property in Woodruff, South Carolina. During the two months that Brown spent in captivity, she was raped by Kohlhepp numerous times. 

As it turns out, she was not his first victim. Other bodies were found buried on his property, and he confessed to the mass murder of several employees of a motorcycle shop. Investigations of all of Kohlhepp's possible murders are ongoing.


Unlike the other kidnappers on this list, Heidnik killed some of the women that he had held captive once he was done with them. Between the years of 1986 and 1987, he kidnapped six women and held them captive in his basement. He alternately raped and tortured them, making the others watch while this went on. When the women supposedly began to die "by accident," he would dismember their bodies in front of the living victims.

At one point he even cooked the flesh of one of them, Sandra Lindsey, and fed it to the others. Eventually, one of the women, Josefina Rivera, convinced him to let her go; she went straight to the police. For his part, Heidnik was sentenced to death for his crimes and executed via lethal injection in 1999.


One of the most celebrated rescues in recent history was that of Jaycee Dugard. She was kidnapped at the age of 11 and held in a compound built in Phillip and Nancy Garrido's Antioch, California home for 18 years. During that time, she was repeatedly raped by Garrido and gave birth to his children - with the first delivery occurring when she was only 13. Nancy Garrido psychologically tortured Dugard, acting as her jailer.

There were times when they would give her pet kittens, only to make them vanish, and Dugard spent some of her imprisonment handcuffed in a locked room. In 2011, Phillip Garrido was sentenced to serve 431 years, and his wife, Nancy, was sentenced to 36 years to life in prison.






The bullet responsible for killing a Ventura County Sheriff’s sergeant during November's mass shooting at the Borderline Bar & Grill was fired by a California Highway Patrol officer, authorities said Friday.
Sgt. Ron Helus – who was nearing retirement – was also struck by five rounds from 28-year-old gunman Ian David Long.
But it was the sixth round, fired by a fellow law enforcement officer, that struck Helus heart and killed him, Ventura County Sheriff William Ayub said during a Friday press conference."It was just a tragic detail that unfolded so rapidly, in my view it was unavoidable," Ayub said. "They were ambushed almost immediately."
Helus responded to the scene after Long stormed into the Thousand Oaks bar Nov. 7 and sprayed the crowd with gunfire, killing 12 people.
CALIFORNIA SHERIFF'S SGT. RON HELUS KILLED IN BAR SHOOTING, 'DIED A HERO,' MADE LAST CALL TO WIFE
Long threw smoke grenades into the crowd, obstructing what they could see before he opened fire. He then used a flashlight with a laser sight attached to his .45-caliber semi-automatic pistol as he fired at the establishment, which was filled mostly with young people dancing to country music.
Helus has been credited as being a hero after he rushed into the bar to confront the gunman.
Panicked revelers smashed windows, dived under tables and piled on top of each other in an effort to dodge the gunfire.
Long later killed himself.
Ayub said the fatal shot did not diminish the heroism shown by the officers. The CHP officer was not identified but is a 9-year veteran of the force who is on leave.




A man with neo-Nazi beliefs whose brazen assault on counterprotesters of a “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, last year was found guilty Friday of first-degree murder.
James Alex Fields, Jr. shot is cannon into the crowd, killing Heather Heyer a 32-year-old paralegal . A jury in Charlottesville deliberated for seven hours before convicting Fields, 21, a Nazi sympathizer from Maumee, Ohio.
The jury also found Fields guilty of five counts of aggravated malicious wounding, three of malicious wounding, and one hit-and-run count. In all, 35 other people were wounded in the Aug. 12, 2017 assault, which brought national attention and heightened tension between right-leaning activists and their critics.
Fields' mother, Samantha Bloom, and Heyer's mother, Susan Bro, were both in the courtroom when the verdicts were read. But both left without comment. Fields, wearing glasses and a light blue sweater, showed no emotion as the verdicts were announced.
He faces 20 years to life in prison for the murder charge. Sentencing is expected to begin Monday, when Bro and eight victims of the attack will provide testimony.
A woman who was injured in the assault but survived said the verdict has made her feel "the best I’ve been in a year-and-a-half.” Other victims embraced Heyer’s mother immediately after the verdict.
White nationalist Richard Spencer called the verdict a “miscarriage of justice" and said Fields “was treated as a terrorist from the get-go.” Spencer questioned whether Fields could get a fair trial since the case was so emotional.
Spencer popularized the term “alt-right” to describe a fringe movement loosely mixing white nationalism, anti-Semitism and other far-right extremist views. He said he doesn’t feel any personal responsibility for the violence that erupted in Charlottesville.
About a dozen civil rights activists who were outside the courthouse chanted in unison after the verdict that white nationalists “will not replace us.”
It was a revised version of slurs shouted by white-supremacist-rally participants in 2017 who yelled “Jews will not replace us.”
Charlottesville civil rights activist Tanesha Hudson said she attended the rally and saw the violence that day. She said she sees the guilty verdict as the city’s way of saying, “We will not tolerate this in our city.” She says Charlottesville residents “don’t stand for this type of hate.”
As jury selection in the trial got underway earlier this week, Fields’ attorney John Hill told a group of prospective jurors that Fields was in a panicked state during the attack and “thought he was acting in self-defense.”
Fields has also been charged with 30 federal counts of hate crimes, which could result in the death penalty. That trial has not been scheduled. He has pleaded not guilty.




A landscape gardener has been jailed for at least 16 years for the murder of midwife Samantha Eastwood in Staffordshire.
Michael Stirling, 32, suffocated and strangled his 28 year-old lover during a row at her home in Stoke-on-Trent before burying her body at a disused quarry.
He tried to cover his tracks by using her phone to text her family to say she had run away with a "man off the internet".
Stirling also pretended to help in searches for her and even comforted her worried sister with a hug despite knowing Ms Eastwood was already dead.
Her body was found in a shallow grave in Caverswall eight days later. Ms Eastwood had been wrapped in a duvet, with tape around her eyes and face.
Stirling pleaded guilty to the murder at a hearing at Stafford Crown Court in October.
Ms Eastwood's family watched from the public gallery as he was sentenced to life imprisonment with a 16 year minimum term on Monday.
Mrs Justice Susan Carr said: "Samantha was alone in her home where she should have been safe and sound, and trusted you in her house.




A traveling clothing salesman was sentenced on Friday to 75 years to life in prison for killing three merchants in Brooklyn in a series of attacks that had shopkeepers on alert for months, prosecutors said.

The man, Salvatore Perrone, 67, of Staten Island, was convicted last month in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn of three counts of second-degree murder. Justice Alan D. Marrus sentenced Mr. Perrone to the maximum penalty allowed.

In three attacks in 2012, the authorities said, Mr. Perrone went into stores in Brooklyn around closing time, when the merchants, who were all of Middle Eastern origin, were alone. He opened fire with the same sawed-off rifle in each attack. When he was arrested, he had been planning to attack again, the police said.

“It’s hard to think of anyone who deserves to spend the rest of his life in prison more than this coldblooded and unrepentant serial killer,” Ken Thompson, the Brooklyn district attorney, said in a statement on Friday.

During the sentencing hearing, Mr. Perrone maintained his innocence, officials said.

The series of shootings began on July 6, 2012, when Mohamed Gebeli, 65, was found inside his clothing store in the Bay Ridge neighborhood with a single gunshot wound to the neck. On Aug. 2, Isaac Kadare, 59, was shot in the head and his throat was slit inside his store in Bensonhurst. And on Nov. 16, Rahmatollah Vahidipour, 78, was shot in the head, face and chest in his clothing shop in the Prospect-Lefferts Gardens neighborhood.

The shootings were connected by .22-caliber shell casings recovered at the scenes.




Police have arrested and charged a man with killing a 13-year-old girl who was kidnapped last month from a North Carolina mobile home park.

The FBI said early Saturday that Michael Ray McLellan was responsible for the disappearance and slaying of Hania Noelia Aguilar. The announcement came the same day that a memorial service for Aguilar was set to take place at a local high school.

The 34-year-old McLellan faces first-degree murder, rape and eight other felony charges. He had been released from prison in June and was still on parole from a 2017 felony breaking and entering conviction, according to the News & Observer of Raleigh.

He was previously convicted in 2007 of assault with a deadly weapon and was released on parole in 2016, the newspaper reported.

He was being held without bond in the Robeson County Detention Center and was to appear in court on Monday.

McLellan was in custody at the time of his arrest on charges unrelated to the Aguilar case, police said.

On Nov. 5, police said Aguilar went outside to start a relative’s SUV to prepare to leave for the bus stop when a man forced her into the vehicle and fled.

Her disappearance sparked an intensive search. Drones, dogs, and scores of searchers on foot spent the following weeks combing the area. Police found her body several weeks later in a body of water about 10 miles south of the mobile home park where she was kidnapped.

“This is the outcome that we all feared,” Lumberton Police Chief Michael McNeill told reporters after the body was found. “We did not want to hear this. We wanted to bring Hania back home and bring her back home alive to our community. It hurts.”

Police said they followed more than 850 leads and conducted nearly 500 interviews. The FBI’s lab at Quantico, Va., did a forensic exam on the stolen SUV, which was recovered a few days after Aguilar’s initial disappearance. The North Carolina State Crime Lab provided test results on Aguilar’s body. Police said the exams helped result in the charges against McLellan.

A large turnout is expected at Aguilar’s funeral Saturday at Lumberton High School. Her father, who lives in Guatemala, was denied an expedited visa to attend his daughter’s funeral.

Police said the investigation is ongoing and additional charges could be filed.




An Irvine man was convicted Friday of first-degree murder in the 2010 death and disappearance of his business partner, despite the claim that he killed him accidentally during a “fight gone bad.”

An Orange County Superior Court jury deliberated for about an hour before delivering the verdict against Edward Younghoon Shin, 40, who ran a debt-consolidation business called 800XChange with Chris Smith, 33, of Laguna Beach.

At his trial, Shin took the stand and claimed that Smith “blew up at me” during an argument at their San Juan Capistrano office on the afternoon of June 4, 2010.

Shin, who had embezzled money from a former employer, said he accused Smith of being complicit in the theft and could furnish proof. Shin said his infuriated partner grabbed him by the throat, lunged at him repeatedly and threw punches.

“He was relentless,” Shin said, adding that he and Smith leaped at each other and collided in midair, and that the melee culminated in Smith falling and hitting his head on a desk.

Shin said he watched Smith lie on the carpet in a fetal position, blood pooling under his head, but did not call 911 because he was scared, in shock and convinced that no one would believe him.

For help disposing of the body, Shin said, he called Las Vegas contacts, one of whom went by the name “Johnny Vegas.” This led to Shin’s supposed meeting, the day after Smith’s death, with a mysterious Eastern European man at a Long Beach gas station.

Chris Smith, who was Shin's business partner. Smith died in 2010.
Chris Smith, who was Shin's business partner. Smith died in 2010. (File photo)
Shin said he never caught the man’s name but gave him $10,000 to $15,000 in cash and a Google map to the office where his business partner lay dead.

Shin said that when he returned to the office, Smith’s body was gone but the carpet and walls were covered with blood. He said he went to a hardware store to buy cleaning supplies and hired carpet cleaners out of the PennySaver. He rented fans and repainted the office walls but had trouble masking all the blood spots.

Shin told employees to take the week off so they wouldn’t come upon the mess and gave them bonuses. “I was a nervous wreck,” Shin said. “I had so many conflicting emotions, it’s hard to describe them all.”

Shin said he stocked up on beef jerky at Costco and planned to take a rental car into Mexico to start a new life, but couldn’t bear the thought of leaving his three small children.

To create the impression that Smith was still alive, Shin acknowledged, he sent multiple emails from his dead partner’s account.

The emails went to Smith’s lawyer, claiming Shin was buying him out of the business; to Smith’s girlfriend, claiming he was leaving her to travel the world with a former Playboy model; and to Smith’s family, suggesting he was suicidal and planned to sail the pirate waters off the Somali coast.

“It was a terrible thing to do, to try to convince somebody’s family their dead son is still alive and traveling,” Shin said.

Shin also acknowledged that he had faked his own kidnapping years earlier and blamed the misbegotten scheme — which targeted his father for ransom money — on the influence of pain medication.

Deputy Dist. Atty. Matt Murphy mocked Shin’s account of the fight with Smith as “cartoonish in its stupidity,” arguing that Shin murdered his partner either by bludgeoning him or stabbing him.

The killing allowed Shin to take Smith’s share of company profits and to forge his signature on documents that settled Shin’s pending embezzlement case without prison time, the prosecutor said.

Murphy said Shin had buried the body in the desert and fabricated the story about the Eastern European man. “In the liar Olympics, you are looking at the gold-medal winner on the planet Earth,” Murphy said.

During cross-examination, Murphy asked Shin why, during an interview with a detective, he had omitted the detail about Smith grabbing him by the throat.

“Probably something that slipped my mind,” Shin said.

Murphy said that if Shin was telling the truth, the condition of the victim’s skull — bearing a single impact wound from a desk — would corroborate his story. Murphy asked him to divulge the location of Smith’s body, but Shin insisted he did not know.

“The body sets him free, and he makes no effort to find it,” Murphy told jurors during his closing argument Thursday. “Somewhere out there right now, in between a couple of bushes in the sand, there’s a grave that gets a little older every year.”

Murphy said Shin was a craps addict who gambled so heavily in Las Vegas that the Encore hotel would comp him a luxurious suite. Murphy pointed to an email Shin sent at 6:01 p.m., soon after Smith died, pretending to be Smith, saying Shin would buy him out of the company.

“That is not a man in a panic,” Murphy said. “That’s written by a coldblooded killer who’s trying to take the man’s money.”

In his closing argument, defense attorney T. Edward Welbourn acknowledged that Shin “did a lot of bad things after Chris’ death,” including the emotional “torture” of Smith’s loved ones, but said that it was not a case of first-degree murder.

The defense attorney characterized Smith as a paranoid, stress-burdened conspiracy theorist who thought he was being tormented by an ominous entity called “the Matrix.”

In the argument preceding his death, the defense said, Smith feared he would go to jail because Shin claimed he could prove Smith had a hand in embezzling money from their former employer.

“If he had planned to murder Chris, he wouldn’t have done it at the office,” Welbourn said. “There’s a million different ways he could have killed Chris.”

Shin faces life in prison when Superior Court Judge Gregg L. Prickett sentences him Feb. 1.




Nothing seemed amiss when Eduardo Hernandez Amezcua and his wife turned in for the night six days before Christmas in 2016.

Eduardo’s son and daughter-in-law had been over for dinner earlier that evening at the home on 31st Street downtown.

The Christmas tree lights were on, as were the flickering lights over the fireplace. Eduardo fell asleep on the living room couch at about 10:30 p.m., while his wife, Amber, went to bed about an hour later on a nearby chair.

But everything changed at about 1:30 a.m., when a man broke into the couple’s home.

After a three-day trial this week, Monte Michael Stokes — a 38-year-old stranger to the couple — was convicted of murdering Amezcua in his living room as his wife watched. A jury recommended that Stokes serve 35 years in prison.

From the witness stand this week, Amber testified that she awoke Dec. 20 to the sound of breaking glass in the laundry room.

Eduardo Hernandez Amezcua
Eduardo Hernandez Amezcua, 51, killed in his Newport News home on Dec. 20, 2016. (Family photo/Amber Amezcua)
At first, she thought the cat or dog had knocked something over, and she rolled over to go back to sleep. But a few seconds later, she said, she heard clothing racks clanging to the floor in the hallway and saw a “shadow moving across the doorway” between the living room and the dining room.

“Ed shot up,” Amber testified, recalling how her husband jumped off the couch and confronted the intruder in the corner of the living room. “He was a heavy sleeper, but would wake up swinging if you startled him.”

Amber said she then heard a gun go off.

“Ed fell to the ground, and I fell back in my chair,” she said.

“Don’t shoot me! Don’t shoot me!” she yelled out, according to her testimony, recalling how she pulled a blanket over her head.

The intruder walked past Amber to the French doors leading to a first-floor balcony. As she yelled at the man to get out, she said, he “just kept repeatedly using his face” to bang into the doors.

The doors eventually gave way, she said, and the man “poured outside.”

Amber testified that as soon as the intruder left the home, she raced to her 51-year-old husband, a father of two, as he lay on the floor. She said she saw blood gushing from his head, and called 911.

Body camera footage from the first police officer at the scene shows Amezcua’s body lying face up, with a small barking dog jumping over him.

Stokes’ lawyer, James Ellenson, said his client simply wasn’t in his right mind at the time of the shooting.

Stokes tested positive that night for a combination of alcohol, cocaine, marijuana and Benzodiazepine — the drug found in anti-anxiety medications such as Xanax. Stokes testified that he was “drinking all night,” then smoked a joint that a woman laced with “a little cocaine.”

Monte Michael Stokes, 38, was convicted of second-degree murder on Thursday, with a jury recommending a 35-year-sentence.
Monte Michael Stokes, 38, was convicted of second-degree murder on Thursday, with a jury recommending a 35-year-sentence. (Newport News Police Department)
He said he had no recollection of going into the home.

At first, police weren’t sure whether Stokes — with heavy facial bruises from the glass door — was another victim.

Body camera footage from a second responding police officer showed Stokes screaming from the underside of a parked car near the Amezcuas’ apartment. It took several minutes for officers to yank Stokes out, as he held onto the car’s underside.

“We’re here to help you,” an officer told him. “We’re trying to get you to the hospital. …Jesus Christ sent us to help you.”

Police found a handgun on the street near the home, off West Avenue near Newport News Shipbuilding. Stokes’ DNA matched blood found on that gun, forensics experts said.

Stokes’ fingerprints were on the gun’s magazine, and the weapon also matched three shell casings found in the home, experts said. A trail of blood began at the laundry room’s broken window and led “straight to the defendant,” Senior Assistant Commonwealth’s Attorney Amy Pyecha said in closing arguments.

Before trial, prosecutors reduced the charge from first-degree to second-degree murder. That’s because intoxication is a defense to premeditated murder, but not for second-degree murder.

During closing arguments Thursday, Ellenson acknowledged Stokes committed the “senseless death.” But he still said the jury had a duty to acquit Stokes.

Homicide in Downtown Newport News
A man was shot and killed on 31st Street in Downtown Newport News
Ellenson said that malice — the evil intent necessary for a murder conviction — requires that someone “be under the control of reason” at the time of the killing. But Stokes, he said, wasn’t acting rationally.

“It’s not just about him,” Ellenson said. “It’s about the rule of law. It’s about everyone who lives in this country. You don’t decide the case based on emotion.”

Pyecha countered that there’s nothing more malicious than “going into someone’s home while they are asleep and shooting him through the temple … in front of his wife.”

In an interview, Amber Amezcua said her husband, who came to the United States from Mexico as a child, always went out of his way to assist people.

If a car was broken down on the side of the road, she said, “he didn't hesitate to stop and help them.”

Eduardo’s in-laws, Phil and Cheryl Bornheimer, said he was renovating a home in the local area that he had planned to move into with Amber and the in-laws.

Stokes was convicted on one count each of second-degree murder, shooting a gun in an occupied building and illegal use of a firearm during the commission of a felony. He faced up to 53 years in prison, but the jury decided 35 years is more appropriate.

Newport News Circuit Court Judge Gary Mills will decide Stokes’ fate at a sentencing hearing March 8.



n a plea deal that allows him to avoid a possible death penalty, a northern Virginia man has admitted he raped and killed a Muslim teenager last year.

Twenty-five-year-old Darwin Martinez-Torres of Sterling entered the guilty plea Wednesday in Fairfax County in the June 2017 murder of 17-year-old Nabra Hassanen of Reston. She had been out with a group of friends eating a pre-dawn meal at a fast-food restaurant ahead of Ramadan services.

Martinez-Torres was driving by and got into an altercation with the group.

Wednesday's plea deal imposes a life sentence without possibility of parole.

Nabra's death attracted widespread attention amid concerns that her slaying was motivated by anti-Muslim sentiment, though police have said repeatedly they have no evidence of a hate crime.




A high school football player from Indiana says he stabbed his classmate in the heart after finding out she was pregnant with his child and it was too late to get an abortion, police said.

Aaron Trejo, 16, from Mishawaka, is charged with one count of murder and one count of feticide for allegedly stabbing 17-year-old Breana Rouhselang to death, the South Bend Tribune reported.

Police arrested Trejo early Sunday after cops found Rouhselang’s body covered in a trash bag in a dumpster behind a restaurant near her home. She was six months pregnant. Rouhselang, a cheerleader at Mishawaka High School, was also the football team’s manager.

Rouhselang’s mom called the police to report her daughter missing at 1 a.m. Sunday. She told cops her daughter left her house Saturday night to talk to Trejo but never returned.

During questioning, Trejo initially told police he was supposed to meet with Rouhselang to talk about the pregnancy at the alley behind her house but she never showed up, according to an arrest affidavit.

Upon searching the alley behind Rouhselang’s house, cops found glasses and a bloody stocking cap. They eventually discovered Rouhselang’s body behind Pasquale Rulli’s restaurant a block from her home.

Cops took Trejo to the St. Joseph County Metro Homicide Unit for questioning, and he denied seeing Rouhselang the night of her murder for a second time before eventually confessing. He told police that neither he nor Rouhselang wanted to have the baby.

“I took action … I took her life,” he said, according to an affidavit obtained by the Indianapolis Star. He admitted thinking about killing Rouhselang for about a week. He stabbed her in the heart with a knife from his house, then put her body in a black trash bag and threw her in a dumpster, Trejo told the police.

Trejo told cops he went to the St. Joseph River, where he threw the weapon and Rouhselang’s cellphone “as far out into the river as he could.” An autopsy found that Rouhselang died from multiple stab wounds and strangulation from a scarf around her neck. The autopsy confirmed the pregnancy.

Trejo will be tried as an adult. He faces up to 65 years behind bars on the murder charge and another 16 on the feticide charge. His arraignment was scheduled for 1 p.m. Tuesday.

Rouhselang’s classmates learned of her death Sunday night during a football team banquet. On Monday, 200 students at the school left class and observed a moment of silence for Rouhselang at the school flagpole.

Friends of Rouhselang’s family set up a GoFundMe page to help them cover funeral expenses.



Four months after a Colorado man strangled his pregnant wife and smothered his two young daughters to death, the woman’s grieving parents are still trying to come to terms with the horrific murder, they said in their first interview.

“That’s the big word – Why?” Frank Rzucek, father of Shanann Watts, 34, told ABC’s “20/20.” “He must have snapped, because there’s nothing else I could figure out what happened to him.”

“We did scream at God, yes we did,” Sandra Rzucek, Shanann Watts’ mother, added on the program. “The devil comes to you in any shape, size and form and can be transformed into anything.”

Christopher Watts, 33, pleaded guilty to the heinous slayings of Shanann — who was pregnant with a son the couple had already named Nico — and their two daughters, 4-year-old Bella and 3-year-old Celeste, in exchange for prosecutors sparing him the death penalty.

Christopher initially played the role of concerned husband and father, telling cops and news outlets that he had no idea what happened to his family.

But when, two days after they were reported missing, the girls’ lifeless bodies were found stuffed into oil tanks and their mom’s remains were uncovered in a nearby shallow grave, Watts changed his tune and admitted strangling his wife, but only because, he claimed, he saw her abusing Celeste.

Investigators quickly determined that that story too was “a flat-out lie” and that Watts wanted a fresh start with his mistress.

The Rzuceks called Shanann a “phenomenal” mother who would “do anything for her children” and battled lupus for a long time.

SEE ALSO 
Christopher Watts
Chris Watts sentenced to life for murders of pregnant wife, daughters
The family at first “loved” Chris, whom Shanann had met through Facebook, they said on the program.

“You just don’t sleep very good with lupus,” Sandra Rzcuek said. “She had her head on his lap, and they were watching TV. He didn’t move. He didn’t get up to go to the bathroom. He didn’t get a drink. He let her sleep for four hours. I told her, ‘God must’ve sent him to you.’”

It wasn’t until Shanann went with the girls to visit her family in North Carolina for six weeks — while Chris stayed behind — that any marriage problems started cropping up.

Once Shannan and the kids arrived home, Shanann’s friend Addy told “20/20” that Shannann had texted her to say that Chris “had changed” and told her he didn’t “want another baby.”

Chris was sentenced in November to five life sentences, three to be served consecutively, without parole.




SALT LAKE CITY — A woman drew her ex-husband outside his apartment with a message about dropping off cold medicine for their 3-year-old twins, then sneaked inside and fatally shot his girlfriend while she and the children were decorating a Christmas tree, a Utah prosecutor said Wednesday.

Chelsea Watrous Cook is charged with aggravated murder, burglary and violence in the presence of a child in the killing of Lisa Vilate Williams. No attorney was immediately listed in court records for Cook, who was a high school heath teacher in Lehi, Utah, before her arrest on Nov. 25.

Cook, 32, refused to leave when her ex-husband, Travis Cook, returned from the parking lot, authorities said. She locked herself in the bathroom as he called 911.

Less than a minute later, she walked out, grabbed a gun from her coat and fired the fatal shots. Her ex-husband told the children to run into their rooms and lock the doors. He pinned his ex-wife to the wall and waited for police to arrive.

Williams’ family has said Cook harassed the 26-year-old woman for months online, on the phone and in person before the shooting. A police report indicates Williams had come up during a previous fight between the onetime couple the month before she was killed.

The report detailing misdemeanor domestic violence charges filed against Cook was obtained by the Associated Press under a public records request.

It said the couple had a history of difficult custody exchanges, and on Oct. 16 Cook yelled “disparaging comments” about Williams during an unrelated fight as her ex-husband tried to pick up the children.

When he prompted one of the children to say they were excited about seeing her, Cook got angry and grabbed the man by the hair, sending him tumbling down the stairs, police said. Williams was not present at the time.

Her lawyer in that case has not returned calls seeking comment, but Cook had pleaded not guilty.




The killing of Florida tourist Carla Stefaniak in Costa Rica was sexually motivated, according to local authorities.

Walter Espinoza, director general of the country’s Judicial Investigation Department, revealed the motive during a press conference Wednesday covered by the Sun-Sentinel.

He also released new information about suspect Bismark Espinosa Martinez, including how he contradicted himself in statements to police.

Martinez, a Nicaraguan security guard, reportedly told investigators that he last saw Stefaniak at the Airbnb where he works on Nov. 28. — getting into an Uber with her luggage early that morning.

He claimed to have helped her load her stuff into the vehicle before seeing her off, but authorities said surveillance video contradicted this.

Forensic evidence found at the scene, including traces of blood, showed that Stefaniak was attacked inside the Airbnb apartment where she was staying. The woman had traveled to Costa Rica to celebrate her 36th birthday, according to relatives.

Her family was finally allowed to see her body late Tuesday night — more than 15 hours after it was found.

“Words cannot express the devastation within her family and friends,” her relatives said in a statement. “We want the world to know that we will never forget Carla. We will never forget the joy she brought into our lives, how much she made us laugh. We will always be with her and we know she will always be with us. May god bless her soul.”






A killer pharmacist called 999 (the UK’s version of 911), claiming home invaders had tied up and murdered his wife. In reality, he killed her so he could run off with his gay lover.

Mitesh Patel was jailed for life Wednesday with a minimum of 30 years for suffocating Jessica with a grocery bag at their home in England.

Patel injected his wife to subdue her when she came home from work May 14, then strangled her with the bag before faking a break-in.

He was convicted of her murder after data from his iPhone health app showed how he had frantically climbed up and down stairs while staging the scene.

Patel then dialed 999 and coolly said: “Oh hiya, I think we’ve been burgled and my wife’s been attacked.”

The couple ran a successful pharmacy together but their marriage was unhappy, with Patel repeatedly seeking sex with men on the Grindr dating app.

He was in a secret relationship with his “soulmate,” Dr. Amit Patel, who had emigrated to Sydney and with whom he hoped to bring up his and Jessica’s baby.

Modal TriggerMitesh Patel destroyed the home he shared with his wife to make it look as though there had been a break-in.
Mitesh Patel destroyed the home he shared with his wife to make it look as though there had been a break-in.
CCTV footage from outside the couple’s home also showed Jessica entering the property for the final time and no one else coming or going until the body was discovered.

After the murder, police discovered syringes prepared with insulin in Patel’s laptop bag and one was empty.

Prosecutor Nicholas Campbell said: “From various life insurance policies Mitesh Patel stood to profit from his wife’s death to the tune of [$2.5] million.”

“He was planning to use that money to start a new life in Australia shared with the person he really loved … another man named Dr. Amit Patel.”

Despite his repeated infidelity with men he met on Grindr and also being in love with Patel, Mitesh desperately tried to persuade his wife to have a baby using IVF.

When she voiced her doubts about going through with the process, the husband texted her: “Ok then I’m telling you this then we are parting ways.”

But she did eventually go through three cycles of the fertility treatment and the last was successful, resulting in three embryos that now lie frozen in a clinic.




The fourth member of the so-called “Texas 7” gang of prison escapees was executed late Tuesday for gunning down a police officer during a Christmas Eve robbery while on the run nearly two decades ago.

Joseph Garcia, 47, was pronounced dead at 6:43 p.m., 13 minutes after receiving a lethal injection at a state penitentiary in Huntsville, where he said a prayer during his final statement, according to the Houston Chronicle.

“Dear Heavenly Father, please forgive them for they know not what they do,” Garcia said.

Garcia’s execution was carried out following a flurry of failed last-minute appeals, lawsuits and clemency requests in the 2000 shooting death of Irving police officer Aubrey Hawkins, who was 29 when he was killed while responding to a robbery at a sporting goods store nine days after the gang escaped.

Five of the seven escapees fired shots during the violent ordeal at Oshman’s sporting goods store, where they took hostages and stole supplies to continue eluding police. Garcia and his cohorts were on the run for six weeks before the manhunt ended in Colorado.

One of the escapees, Larry Harper, killed himself before the group was taken into custody, the Chronicle reports. Six of the brutes were later convicted of killing Hawkins and received the death penalty.

“It’s been almost 18 years,” attorney Toby Shook, a former prosecutor who handled the six trials, told the newspaper earlier this year. “It’s satisfying that the actual sentence will actually be carried out.”

Garcia, for his part, has insisted that he was inside the sporting goods store when Hawkins was shot and claimed he was being executed because of the notoriety of the prison escape that gripped the nation and led to him being placed on America’s Most Wanted list.

“I am on death row because of the actions and intent of others and because I am one of the Texas Seven, case closed,” Garcia wrote the newspaper weeks ago. “Is it right that I should be murdered for something that I did not do?”

Through his attorneys, Garcia apologized to Hawkins’ family, as well as the employees at the sporting goods store.

“None of this was supposed to happen,” said Garcia, who had been serving a 50-year sentence for an assault that left one man dead when he busted out of prison. “I wish it didn’t.”

Shook, who now works as a defense attorney in Dallas, acknowledged that authorities could not prove which escaped inmate fired the gun that killed Hawkins, but said they acted in concert to rob the store and kill the officer, who reportedly had just finished Christmas Eve dinner before responding to the scene.

“He was up to his ears in murder and mayhem out there,” Shook told the Dallas Morning News. “He was actively participating in everything.”

With Garcia’s execution, law enforcement officials are one step closer to getting justice, Shook said.

“We can finally close the book on them when the punishments are all completed,” he told the newspaper.




DENVER — A Colorado man who was sentenced to life in prison for killing his pregnant wife and two young daughters has been transferred to an out-of-state prison.

Department of Corrections spokesman Mark Fairbairn tells the Denver Post that 33-year-old Christopher Watts was moved to an undisclosed prison for “safety and security” reasons.

Prosecutors say Watts strangled his wife, Shanann, and smothered his daughters, 4-year-old Bella and 3-year-old Celeste, inside the family’s suburban Denver home in August. He then buried his wife in a shallow grave on an oil and gas work site and dumped the girls’ bodies in oil tanks nearby.

Fairbairn did not respond to a request by the Associated Press on Tuesday for additional details





A Texas mother drowned her 5-year-old son and decapitated him before stuffing his body in a trash can at their Houston home on Friday, police said.

Lihui Liu, 43, was arrested Friday after the boy’s father discovered the 5-year-old’s headless body in a trash can in the garage of their home, the Houston Chronicle reported. Officers initially responded to a 911 call of a stabbing at the home around 7 p.m. Friday.

Police arrived at the scene to find the boy’s body in the garage partially covered with a plastic bag.

The boy’s father later told cops he came home from work and Liu told him she sent their son away. After he started looking for the boy, his wife allegedly admitted the child was in the trash can, the Houston Chronicle reported.

He found the body covered in a black bag inside the trash can along with the head. Police recovered a blood-soaked knife in the bathroom and blood splatter in the tub.

Liu was taken into custody, where she later admitted to drowning her son, but gave no further details of the decapitation.

The couple also has a 13-year-old daughter, but it’s unclear if she was in the house at the time of the slaying.

Liu was charged with murder and is expected to be back in court on Monda







Scandals(person, accusation, Victim, Proved/alleged)
https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/amazon-pulls-jeffrey-tambor-from-emmy-contention-amid-sexual-harassment-allegations


Amazon will not put Jeffrey Tambor into contention for the Emmy Awards this year after he was fired from the streaming service’s show ‘Transparent” amid allegations of sexual harassment on set.


Though the streaming giant will not be submitting Tambor's name, Vulture reported that actors' personal representatives can enter names for Emmy consideration.


Tambor has won multiple awards, including two Emmy Awards and a Golden Globe, for his role as retired college professor Morton Pfefferman, who opens up to his family about "identifying as a woman, and becoming Maura," according to Rotten Tomatoes.


JEFFREY TAMBOR ON #METOO ALLEGATIONS: I’M ‘MEAN,’ BUT I NEVER SEXUALLY HARASSED ANYONE


Tambor, 73, was fired from the series in February after his former assistant Van Barnes and “Transparent” actress Trace Lysette accused the actor of sexual harassment. The series’ showrunner, Jill Soloway, decided to fire Tambor amid the allegations.
Tambor denied acting inappropriately with Barnes and Lysette but admitted he has anger issues.


TIDAL DELIBERATELY OVERREPORTED BEYONCE AND KANYE WEST STREAMS, REPORT SAYS


Despite being ousted from “Transparent,” Tambor will reprise his role as George Bluth in the fifth season of “Arrested Development.”


Italy's Labor Minister Embroiled in Family Business Scandal
The father of Italy's labor and development minister apologized Monday for hiring workers off the books for his small construction firm but insisted his "errors" shouldn't reflect badly on his son.

A video posted Monday on the 5-Star Movement's Facebook page featured Antonio Di Maio, at times choking up, acknowledging he had hired workers without contracts and saying his business couldn't survive any other way.

Di Maio's son, Italian Deputy Premier Luigi Di Maio, leads the 5-Stars, an anti-establishment party that prides itself on the honesty and transparency of its public servants.

The labor and tax scandal involving the elder Di Maio is problematic for his son since the campaign that brought the 5-Stars to power in June emphasized his family's honest background and Luigi Di Maio's support for the ordinary workers and small entrepreneurs who make up the backbone of Italy's struggling economy.

After initially saying he didn't know details about the family business, Di Maio, who heads Italy's labor and economic development ministries, inquired with his father and acknowledged problems. He has distanced himself from them and vowed full transparency.

Police have also searched the family's Naples-area homestead after Mediaset's Le Iene investigative program, which broke the scandal, suggested some buildings there were unauthorized.
Swedish Court Adds Second Rape Conviction for Man in Nobel Scandal
STOCKHOLM — A Swedish appeals court on Monday found Jean-Claude Arnault, the man at the center of a sex scandal that forced the postponement of this year's Nobel Prize in Literature, guilty of an additional rape and increased his prison term.

A lower court in October had convicted Arnault, who is married to Swedish Academy member Katarina Frostenson, of one rape but acquitted him of another. The lower court verdict was appealed by both the prosecutor and the defense.

The appeals court convicted him of both rapes of the woman in question in an unanimous decision and lengthened his prison sentence by six months to 2-1/2 years. Arnault had denied all charges.

"My client is very grateful and very relieved about the verdict from the Court of Appeals. This vindication also means that my client can finally move on with her life," Elisabeth Massi Fritz, the woman's lawyer, told TT news agency.

Arnault's lawyer said the verdict would be appealed to the Supreme Court.

Arnault, a photographer and well-known cultural figure in Sweden, was accused of sexual misconduct by 18 women in a newspaper article in November last year. All but one of the women's allegations were dropped due to a lack of evidence or because the statute of limitations had passed.

In an internal investigation initiated by the Academy he was also alleged to have leaked the closely-guarded names of Nobel prize winners on seven different occasions.

Arnault denied all charges, including that of being the source of leaks.




Jeffrey Epstein had a little black book filled with the names and personal phone numbers of some of the world’s wealthiest and most influential people, from Bill Clinton and Donald Trump to actors, actresses, scientists and business tycoons. For years, Epstein lured an endless stream of teenage girls to his Palm Beach mansion, offering to pay them for massages. Instead, police say, for years he coerced middle and high school girls into engaging in sex acts with him and others. As evidence emerged that there were victims and witnesses outside of Palm Beach, the FBI began an investigation in 2006 into whether Epstein and others employed by him were involved in underage sex trafficking. But in 2007, despite substantial evidence that corroborated the girls’ stories of abuse by Epstein, the U.S. attorney in Miami, Alexander Acosta, signed off on a secret deal for the multimillionaire, one that ensured he would never spend a day in prison. Acosta, now President Donald Trump’s secretary of labor, agreed to seal the agreement so that no one – not even Epstein’s victims – would know the full extent of his crimes or who was involved. The Miami Herald obtained thousands of FBI and court records, lawsuits, and witness depositions, and went to federal court in New York to access sealed documents in the reporting of "Perversion of Justice." The Herald also tracked down more than 60 women who said they were victims, some of whom had never spoken of the abuse before.




Teenage recruits were raped by staff and forced to rape each other as part of initiation practices in the Australian military going back to 1960, a public inquiry heard on Tuesday. The Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sex Abuse is hearing evidence from men and women who say they were sexually abused when they were as young as 15, in certain divisions of the Australian defense force. This commission is focusing on alleged abuse at the naval training center HMAS Leeuwin in Western Australia and the army apprentice school Balcombe in Victoria during the 1960s, '70s and '80s and also among cadets with the Australian defense force since 2000. In total, 111 victims came forward to report abuse. More than a dozen of them will give evidence to the inquiry. "On multiple occasions, I was snatched from my bed in the middle of the night by older recruits and dragged to a sports oval," said one male witness who wasn't named. The witness said he was forced to rape other recruits, and was raped himself by older recruits and staff. "The environment made it useless to resist," he said. "One could stand only so much abuse before realizing that saying 'no' was pointless." Many survivors say that when they reported the abuse, they were ignored, punished, or told it was "a rite of passage" in their initiation period. The inquiry also will hear evidence from former and current staff members, and examine the handling of complaints and the responses to claims for compensation.


There he was, five decades later, the priest who had raped Joe Callander in Massachusetts. The photo in the Roman Catholic newsletter showed him with a smile across his wrinkled face, near-naked Amazon Indian children in his arms and at his feet. The Rev. Mario Pezzotti was working with children and supervising other priests in Brazil. It's not an isolated example. In an investigation spanning 21 countries across six continents, The Associated Press found 30 cases of priests accused of abuse who were transferred or moved abroad. Some escaped police investigations. Many had access to children in another country, and some abused again. A priest who admitted to abuse in Los Angeles went to the Philippines, where U.S. church officials mailed him checks and advised him not to reveal their source. A priest in Canada was convicted of sexual abuse and then moved to France, where he was convicted of abuse again in 2005. Another priest was moved back and forth between Ireland and England, despite being diagnosed as a pederast, a man who commits sodomy with boys. "The pattern is if a priest gets into trouble and it's close to becoming a scandal or if the law might get involved, they send them to the missions abroad," said Richard Sipe, a former Benedictine monk and critic of what he says is a practice of international transfers of accused and admitted priest child abusers. "Anything to avoid a scandal."




What began as a harrowing account of child abuse suffered by a former professional English soccer player last month has lifted the lid on what could be one of the worst pedophile scandals Britain has ever known. Andy Woodward, 43, who played in the lower divisions of English soccer, told the Guardian newspaper ... how his life had been ruined because he had been molested as a boy by a youth team coach. His frank revelations of the sexual abuse he endured three decades ago prompted more than 20 other former professionals to come forward with their own distressing stories of suffering at the hands of sexual predators in the sport. In a sign of how widespread the abuse might have been, British police said on Thursday that about 350 victims had come forward to report sexual abuse within soccer clubs and indicated the number was likely to rise. The National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC) charity said that a helpline dedicated to the soccer abuse scandal had received 860 calls in its first week. The charity's staff had made 60 referrals to police or social services in the first three days, triple the number made in the wake of a similar scheme set up for victims of [Jimmy] Savile. The NSPCC has not ruled out suggestions the abuse is still ongoing. "It would be naive to assume that all of the concerns that are being disclosed and being talked about are in the past," said Jon Brown, the NSPCC lead on tackling sexual abuse.




STOCKHOLM — A Swedish court on Monday found Jean-Claude Arnault, the man at the center of a scandal that led to the cancellation of this year’s Nobel Prize in Literature, guilty of raping a woman in 2011.

The court sentenced Mr. Arnault to two years in prison, the minimum term for rape.

Mr. Arnault’s lawyer, Bjorn Hurtig, told Swedish news media that his client would appeal the verdict. He had previously denied the allegations against Mr. Arnault, describing them as a “witch hunt.”

The charges against Mr. Arnault, 72, stemmed from a scandal that severely damaged the reputation of the Swedish Academy, which awards the Nobel Prize in Literature, and set off a series of recriminations and power struggles there.

Mr. Arnault, a French photographer, was long seen in Sweden as someone who could make or break a career in the arts. He and his wife, a member of the Swedish Academy, owned the Forum, a popular cultural venue that received support from the academy.

The Swedish Academy declined to comment on the verdict.

In November last year, the Swedish daily Dagens Nyheter reported that 18 women had accused Mr. Arnault of sexual assault or harassment. Many said they had been mistreated at the Forum or at academy-owned properties in Stockholm and Paris. The accusations covered a period of 20 years; in many cases, too much time had passed for criminal charges to be considered under Swedish law.

But in June, prosecutors charged Mr. Arnault with two counts of rape, both involving the same woman, in relation to separate episodes in 2011. The woman, a writer and academic, went to the police a few days after the Dagens Nyheter report was published, telling them she had not come forward earlier because Mr. Arnault was a close friend of her boss.

At a three-day trial in Stockholm District Court that ended on Sept. 24, prosecutors said that Mr. Arnault had forced the woman to perform oral sex and to have intercourse in October 2011, and raped her as she slept in December 2011.

The four-person panel who heard the case — Judge Gudrun Antemar and three lay judges — found him guilty only of the forced oral sex.

Judge Antemar said in a statement released by the court that the evidence showed beyond a reasonable doubt that Mr. Arnault had gripped the woman by the neck to prevent her from moving away.

Editors’ Picks

‘Forget About the Stigma’: Male Nurses Explain Why Nursing Is a Job of the Future for Men

Remarkable People We Overlooked in Our Obituaries

Lil Peep Died Before Becoming Pop Royalty. His New Music May Change That.
The court acquitted him of the other charges. The verdicts were unanimous.

“The evidence in this case has mainly consisted of statements made during the trial by the injured party and several witnesses,” Judge Antemar said in a statement released by the court. “The court has made a thorough evaluation of the evidence and the court’s conclusion is that the evidence is enough to find the defendant guilty of one of the events for which the prosecutor has brought charges.”

Though Mr. Arnault could have received a sentence of up to six years, two years “is a reasonable penalty,” Christina Voigt, the prosecutor, said in a telephone interview. In addition to the prison term, the court awarded unspecified damages to the victim.

Elisabeth Massi Fritz, a lawyer for the victim, called the verdict “a big relief for my client” and “a victory for justice.” She said it should undermine “the culture of silence that surrounds rapes and sex crimes.”

The verdict was announced as the 2018 Nobel season opened, the first without a literature prize in nearly 70 years. The first prize, for physiology or medicine, was announced minutes after the court announced its decision on Mr. Arnault.

Torn apart by an acrimonious fight over its affiliation with Mr. Arnault, the Swedish Academy, which has handed out the award since 1901, announced in May that it would instead name two winners in 2019.

Following the revelations, the academy cut its ties with the Forum, Mr. Arnault’s cultural club, but it refused to expel Mr. Arnault’s wife, Katarina Frostenson, a well-known poet. Instead, members who wanted to play down the crisis ousted Sara Danius, the first woman to lead the academy. Several members resigned in disgust.

Lars Heikensten, director of the Nobel Foundation, has said there might not be a literature prize next year, either.

Mr. Heikensten told the public service broadcaster Sveriges Radio in May that the prize would “be awarded when the Swedish Academy has won back the public’s trust.”




After two days of deafening silence, the Vatican on Thursday condemned newly revealed sex abuses that raged for decades in six dioceses in Pennsylvania as "criminal and morally reprehensible.”

“Those acts were betrayals of trust that robbed survivors of their dignity and faith,” Vatican spokesman Greg Burke said in a statement, adding that the victims should know Pope Francis is on their side.

Until Thursday, the Vatican had declined to address the allegations from a scathing 884-page grand jury report about the abuse.

Expressing "shame and sorrow'' for the Vatican, Burke's strongly worded statement said "The church must learn hard lessons from its past, and there should be accountability for both abusers and those who permitted abuse to occur.”

► Aug. 16: Catholic church in Pa. had 'playbook' to keep priest abuse secret, FBI said
► Aug. 16: 40 Pennsylvania priests confessed their crimes; little was done afterward
► Aug. 15: 'Men of God' kept it secret as priests systematically abused kids

The report, released Tuesday, alleges that more than 300 “predator priests’’ had been accused of raping and sexually molesting more than 1,000 kids over a period of 70 years. The Catholic Church had engaged in a “systematic cover-up’’ while shifting the abusive priests from one parish to another, the report says.

Also Thursday, U.S. bishops urged the Vatican to conduct an investigation into former Washington, D.C., archbishop Theodore McCarrick, who resigned from the College of Cardinals in July amid allegations that he sexually abused minors and adult seminarians for decades.

“Those acts were betrayals of trust that robbed survivors of their dignity and faith.”

Greg Burke, Vatican spokesman
The bishops also said they would establish a mechanism for victims to report sexual abuse by the clergy without church interference.

Details of the grand jury report have horrified members of the church and non-Catholics alike with stunning revelations. Among them: a priest molested a 7-year-old girl during a visit to a hospital where she had her tonsils removed; priests shared naked photos of abuse victims; a priest arranged an abortion after impregnating a girl he had raped; and a priest got a reference letter for a Disney World job after years of complaints about his abusive acts.

The grand jury also said the number of abused children was in the thousands. But an exact figure is hard to pinpoint because some records have been lost and many of the victims did not come forward because they were intimidated or persuaded to stay quiet while the church shielded the abusers.

“Priests were raping little boys and girls, and the men of God who were responsible for them not only did nothing; they hid it all. For decades,’’ the grand jury wrote.

Francis, who became the leader of the Catholic Church five years ago, has been criticized in the past for not addressing forcefully enough the issue of clergy sexual abuse.

However, the director of a new documentary about the pope portrayed him in a May interview as deeply disturbed by the sex abuse crisis.

“Each time, this was the most agitated and the most furious he got, and you realized it was something that tormented him so much,’’ said Wim Wenders, who directed "Pope Francis – A Man of His Word."

“He really got very adamant: 'Tolerencia cero.' ‘Zero tolerance’ was really from the heart. It was the angriest thing he said in the entire interview.”

Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro had sent Francis a letter in July warning him that his office’s 18-month investigation has discovered “widespread sexual abuse of children and a systematic cover-up by leaders of the Catholic Church,’’ CNN reported.

The Vatican never responded.

The impact of the grand jury report has been felt far and wide.

McCarrick's replacement in Washington, Cardinal Donald Wuerl, came under some criticism in the report for his handling of sexual abuse cases during his tenure as bishop of Pittsburgh from 1988 to 2006. The report indicated Wuerl steered some accused priests away from parishes but let others return.

At the Catholic high school named for Wuerl in the Pittsburgh suburb of Cranberry, Pennsylvania, a group of alumni has started a petition to have the name changed.

Wuerl, who has retained the international law firm Jones Day to represent him, issued a statement defending his conduct in Pittsburgh. 

“While I understand this Report may be critical of some of my actions, I believe the Report confirms that I acted with diligence, with concern for the victims and to prevent future acts of abuse,'' he said. "I sincerely hope that a just assessment of my actions, past and present, and my continuing commitment to the protection of children will dispel any notions otherwise made by this report.”


He became known as the “Love Gov.”

In April 2017, Gov. Robert Bentley, Republican of Alabama, stepped down under threat of impeachment and amid accusations that he was having an affair with his senior political adviser, Rebekah Caldwell Mason.

A report by a special counsel to a state legislative committee had said that Mr. Bentley encouraged “an atmosphere of intimidation” around his staff to keep them from speaking of his relationship with Ms. Mason, and that he had directed state employees to cover up the relationship. (Mr. Bentley had denied a physical relationship with Ms. Mason long before he resigned, despite recordings that suggested physical intimacy.)

Central to Mr. Bentley’s resignation was a guilty plea to two misdemeanor charges: failing to file a major contribution report and knowingly converting campaign contributions to personal use.

The report describes how Mr. Bentley tried to use a member of his security detail to break up with Ms. Mason on his behalf, and how Mr. Bentley demanded that she be allowed to travel in official vehicles after she left the state’s payroll.

Before the plea deal, the Alabama Ethics Commission had said it had probable cause to find that Mr. Bentley had committed felonies before he resigned, and had referred its findings to prosecutors.




In 2015, Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, was charged with bribery-related crimes based on his relationship with an eye doctor, Salomon E. Melgen.


Prosecutors said Dr. Melgen made more than $700,000 in direct and indirect political contributions to Mr. Menendez. Within days of one set of contributions, Mr. Menendez pressed federal officials to intervene in a Medicare billing dispute worth almost $9 million to Dr. Melgen. As evidence of illicit behavior, prosecutors also pointed to private flights for Mr. Menendez, as well as travel to a luxury hotel in Paris and seaside stays in the Dominican Republic.


Mr. Menendez maintained that he and Dr. Melgen were just close friends. The federal corruption trial for the two men ended in a mistrial in November.


Prosecutors initially said they intended to retry Mr. Menendez, but after a judge said some elements of their case were “empty of relevant evidential fact,” the Justice Department dropped the charges.


In a separate case, Dr. Melgen was convicted of Medicare fraud in April 2017.


As Mr. Menendez faces re-election in November, Republican efforts to defeat him have seized on the case.




When Aaron Schock joined the House in 2009, he was 27, and a rising Republican star from Illinois.


He pushed for more trade with Colombia, and attracted attention for his Instagram account with photos showing him surfing or glacier-jumping.


But in 2015, Mr. Schock resigned amid accusations that he had used taxpayer and campaign funds on private jets and concerts, and had failed to report extravagant gifts on financial disclosure forms.


He was also criticized for a series of office renovations that included blood-red walls, a crystal chandelier and a plume of pheasant feathers. The renovations were compared to the environs seen on the show “Downton Abbey,” and mocked by many. Mr. Schock had never “seen ‘Downton Abbey’ and did not request an office designed like it,” his lawyer said in 2016.


Mr. Schock eventually paid back the government tens of thousands of dollars for the renovations, according to The Associated Press.


In 2016, he was indicted on charges including wire fraud and theft of government funds. His trial date is scheduled for early 2019.






The presidential candidate’s affair and child
An illicit affair, a pregnancy and a scheme to hide them during the 2008 presidential race.


That would become the focus of a trial in 2012 over whether John Edwards, a former Democratic presidential candidate, vice-presidential nominee and senator, broke campaign finance laws as part of the cover-up. A two-year investigation led to his indictment by a federal grand jury in 2011.


Mr. Edwards began the affair with a campaign videographer, Rielle Hunter, in 2006; she became pregnant the next year. Prosecutors said Mr. Edwards had used about $1 million to hide Ms. Hunter from his wife, Elizabeth Edwards, and the public. They also said he initially had an aide claim paternity of the child, who was born in 2008. Mr. Edwards admitted the child was his in 2010.


Mrs. Edwards died that December after battling cancer. One of her closest friends testified about the emotional turmoil Mrs. Edwards went through to believe that her husband had not conceived a child with Ms. Hunter.


A jury could not reach a verdict on five charges of campaign finance fraud and conspiracy, and found Mr. Edwards not guilty on one other charge. Federal prosecutors later said they would not retry him.






The stays by donors in the White House’s Lincoln Bedroom
The Democratic Party’s fund-raising tactics during the 1996 presidential campaign, including overnight stays for top donors in the White House’s Lincoln Bedroom, became the subject of much controversy.


It would emerge that President Bill Clinton had personally approved a plan, years earlier, to reward Democratic donors and fund-raisers with meals, golf outings and jogs with him, as well as stays in the Lincoln Bedroom to “energize” them for his re-election campaign. Critics referred to the selling of the Lincoln Bedroom.


After Mr. Clinton’s re-election, the administration released a list of 938 guests who stayed in the Lincoln Bedroom and other rooms, including some who did not donate.


Mr. Clinton largely defended the visits, saying that the guests had stayed as friends, not as contributors.


The scandal was soon overshadowed by revelations of Mr. Clinton’s affair with a White House intern, Monica Lewinsky.






The vice president’s visit to a Buddhist temple
Another scandal tied to that campaign would follow Vice President Al Gore for years.


In 2000, a longtime fund-raiser for Mr. Gore was convicted of five felony counts for helping arrange illegal donations to the Democratic Party and its candidates in 1996. About $55,000 of that was in connection with a visit by Mr. Gore to a Buddhist temple in the Los Angeles area during the campaign.


Prosecutors said that the fund-raiser, Maria Hsia, arranged for nuns and monks to write checks to make it seem that they were the donors to the Democratic National Committee. But they were actually reimbursed by the temple, a religious, tax-exempt institution barred from making political contributions.


Mr. Gore’s credibility regarding what he knew came under scrutiny.


The scandal resurfaced during his failed 2000 presidential run. “Who’s he going to be today?” one television ad asked. “The Al Gore who raises campaign money at a Buddhist temple? Or the one who promises campaign finance reform?”




New annual payments of up to £18,900 have been announced for people who contracted hepatitis C through contaminated blood products.


Financial support is being extended to about 190 people in Scotland affected by the chronic form of the disease.


Previously, regular payments were only available to people with advanced stage hepatitis C.


Widows, widowers or partners of people who have died from hepatitis can also claim.


It is estimated that about 3,000 Scots were among 30,000 people across the UK infected with hepatitis C and HIV through NHS blood products in the 1970s and 80s.


Clinical review
In Scotland the Penrose Inquiry three years ago examined what went wrong and how the issue was handled, while a UK-wide public inquiry is currently under way.


Two years ago payments were increased for those affected by the scandal but regular financial support was only given to those with HIV or the final stages of hepatitis C.


Public Health Minister Joe FitzPatrick said the Scottish government was committed to addressing the issue.


He said: "Following an improved support package announced after the Penrose Inquiry, we will have provided nearly £30m in support over the three years from 2016-17 to 2018-19.


"However, we have acknowledged the findings of the recent clinical review, which considered the health impacts of chronic hepatitis C. In light of this we have taken the decision to further increase the level of support available."


The new payments are:


£18,900 per year for those severely affected
£6,300 per year for those moderately affected
£1,000 per year if it does not have a noticeable day-to-day impact
Widows, widowers, civil partners or other long-term partners of deceased beneficiaries will receive annual payments at 75% of these levels.


'Left behind'
Bill Wright from Haemophilia Scotland said the payments recognised that the lives of those with less severe symptom had also been badly affected.


He said: "This was a group of people who were rather left behind in this process.


"Those with cancer, those with liver cirrhosis had been well supported. However, those who'd been chronically affected, whether marriages have been affected, whether employment and income have been affected - they are now receiving the kind of support we've been looking for, for a very long time."




The scandal erupting at Nissan, following the arrest of its chairman Carlos Ghosn over allegations of financial misconduct, is far from the first crisis to hit Japan Inc.


The allegations against Mr Ghosn - the boss of the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi strategic alliance - could have a seismic effect on the global car industry.




The Olympus affair
In October 2011, Michael Woodford achieved something no other Westerner had done - he became the first non-Japanese person to be named as chief executive of Olympus Corporation, the camera and electronics giant.


Two weeks later, he was fired.


Mr Woodford, who had worked at Olympus for 30 years, had blown the whistle on a vast accounting fraud at the company.


After a string of denials, Olympus finally admitted that it had hidden $1.7bn (£1.3bn) worth of losses over two decades.


The entire board at Olympus ended up resigning and the company was forced to cut thousands of jobs.


Mr Woodford sued over his dismissal and was awarded £10m.




Toshiba's irregular accounting
Corporate governance in Japan came under the spotlight again in 2015 when Toshiba revealed that it had overstated its operating profit by nearly $1.2bn.


After the accounting scandal at the industrial conglomerate emerged, Japan's finance minister Taro Aso warned of the wider implications for the country's reputation.


"If [Japan] fails to implement appropriate corporate governance, it could lose the market's trust," he said.


An independent report examining Toshiba found that its improper accounting practices went back to 2008 when the global financial crisis hit.


The report said employees were under pressure to meet aggressive earnings targets.


"Within Toshiba, there was a corporate culture in which one could not go against the wishes of superiors," it said.


Executives resigned. Lawsuits were filed.


But life remained tough for Toshiba and its US nuclear business Westinghouse was forced to file for bankruptcy protection last year.


Westinghouse was sold for $4.6bn to Canada's Brookfield Business Partners earlier this year.




Takata's deadly airbags
Takata was an automotive parts manufacturer which was founded in 1933 by Takezo Takada.


But by 2017, under the stewardship of his grandson, Shigehisa Takada, the company had become mired in a global scandal over faulty airbags that were linked to numerous deaths and hundreds of injuries.


A fault in Takata's airbags caused some to rupture when inflated
Takata's troubles started when it began using a chemical called ammonium nitrate to quickly inflate airbags in vehicles.


Some inflated with such force, they spewed shrapnel at drivers and passengers leading to injuries and in some cases, death.


Takada was forced to recall millions of airbags which, along with a multi-million dollar wave of legal claims, forced the firm to seek bankruptcy protection and prompted the resignation of Mr Takada.


The company was bought by US-based Key Safety Systems earlier this year.




Kobe Steel's data scandal
The travails that emerged at Japan's third-largest steelmaker had potentially wide-reaching implications - Kobe Steel supplies its products to makers of cars, planes and trains around the world.


It came to light in October 2017 that some of Kobe's staff had changed or falsified data about the quality of some of its goods before they were shipped to customers.


Kobe Steel revealed almost 700 instances of "misconduct" and admitted it had "deep-seated issues" around corporate culture and compliance, though no safety issues have been reported.


An investigation into the scandal this year found the firm's management style overemphasised profitability and suffered from inadequate corporate governance.


How did the Kobe Steel scandal happen?
Two executives in Kobe's aluminium and copper division knew about the falsification of data but took no action and were subsequently fired.


Kobe Steel's chairman and chief executive Hiroya Kawasaki also resigned in April.




Nissan's emissions failure
Following the "dieselgate" scandal that engulfed German carmaker Volkswagen, Japan faced its own emissions crisis.


Nissan admitted in July that some emissions and fuel economy tests for its cars sold in Japan had "deviated from the prescribed testing environment".


The company also said that inspection reports had been "based on altered measurement values".


Nissan pledged to conduct a comprehensive investigation and said measures would be taken to ensure the situation did not happen again.


The scandal delivered a hit to Nissan's reputation but contrasts to the troubles at VW, where the firm was found to have falsified emissions levels by installing "defeat devices".